 Wow. Whoa. That is some group of people. Thousands.

So nice, thank you very much. That's really nice. Thank you. It's great to be at Trump Tower. It's great to be in a wonderful city, New York. And it's an honor to have everybody here. This is beyond anybody's expectations. There's been no crowd like this.

And, I can tell, some of the candidates, they went in. They didn't know the air-conditioner didn't work. They sweated like dogs.

(LAUGHTER)

They didn't know the room was too big, because they didn't have anybody there. How are they going to beat ISIS? I don't think it's gonna happen.

(APPLAUSE)

Our country is in serious trouble. We don't have victories anymore. We used to have victories, but we don't have them. When was the last time anybody saw us beating, let's say, China in a trade deal? They kill us. I beat China all the time. All the time.

(APPLAUSE)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We want Trump. We want Trump.

 When did we beat Japan at anything? They send their cars over by the millions, and what do we do? When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo? It doesn't exist, folks. They beat us all the time.

When do we beat Mexico at the border? They're laughing at us, at our stupidity. And now they are beating us economically. They are not our friend, believe me. But they're killing us economically.

The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else's problems.

(APPLAUSE)

Thank you. It's true, and these are the best and the finest. When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best. They're not sending you. They're not sending you. They're sending people that have lots of problems, and they're bringing those problems with us. They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.

But I speak to border guards and they tell us what we're getting. And it only makes common sense. It only makes common sense. They're sending us not the right people.

It's coming from more than Mexico. It's coming from all over South and Latin America, and it's coming probably - probably - from the Middle East. But we don't know. Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we don't know what's happening. And it's got to stop and it's got to stop fast.(APPLAUSE)

 Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East. They've become rich. I'm in competition with them.

They just built a hotel in Syria. Can you believe this? They built a hotel. When I have to build a hotel, I pay interest. They don't have to pay interest, because they took the oil that, when we left Iraq, I said we should've taken.

So now ISIS has the oil, and what they don't have, Iran has. And in 19 - and I will tell you this, and I said it very strongly, years ago, I said - and I love the military, and I want to have the strongest military that we've ever had, and we need it more now than ever. But I said, "Don't hit Iraq," because you're going to totally destabilize the Middle East. Iran is going to take over the Middle East, Iran and somebody else will get the oil, and it turned out that Iran is now taking over Iraq. Think of it. Iran is taking over Iraq, and they're taking it over big league.

We spent $2 trillion in Iraq, $2 trillion. We lost thousands of lives, thousands in Iraq. We have wounded soldiers, who I love, I love - they're great - all over the place, thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers.

And we have nothing. We can't even go there. We have nothing. And every time we give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave it.

Last week, I read 2,300 Humvees - these are big vehicles - were left behind for the enemy. 2,000? You would say maybe two, maybe four? 2,300 sophisticated vehicles, they ran, and the enemy took them.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We need Trump now.

 You're right.

(APPLAUSE)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We need Trump now.

 Last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product - a sign of strength, right? But not for us. It was below zero. Whoever heard of this? It's never below zero.

Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978. But think of it, GDP below zero, horrible labor participation rate.

And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent. Don't believe the 5.6. Don't believe it.

That's right. A lot of people up there can't get jobs. They can't get jobs, because there are no jobs, because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs. They all have jobs.

But the real number, the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21 percent, and nobody talks about it, because it's a statistic that's full of nonsense.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We want Trump now.

 Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the way, and we as a country are getting weaker. Even our nuclear arsenal doesn't work.

It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old. They don't know if it worked. And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television, because boy, does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say, "That is a group of people, and that is a nation that truly has no clue. They don't know what they're doing. They don't know what they're doing."

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We need Trump now.

(APPLAUSE)

 We have a disaster called the big lie: Obamacare. Obamacare.

Yesterday, it came out that costs are going for people up 29, 39, 49, and even 55 percent, and deductibles are through the roof. You have to be hit by a tractor, literally, a tractor, to use it, because the deductibles are so high, it's virtually useless. It's virtually useless. It is a disaster.TRUMP: And remember the $5 billion Web site? $5 billion we spent on a Web site, and to this day it doesn't work. A $5 billion Web site.

I have so many Web sites, I have them all over the place. I hire people, they do a Web site. It costs me $3. $5 billion Web site.

(APPLAUSE)

AUDIENCE: We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump.

 Well, you need somebody, because politicians are all talk, no action. Nothing's gonna get done. They will not bring us - believe me - to the promised land. They will not.

As an example, I've been on the circuit making speeches, and I hear my fellow Republicans. And they're wonderful people. I like them. They all want me to support them. They don't know how to bring it about. They come up to my office. I'm meeting with three of them in the next week. And they don't know - "Are you running? Are you not running? Could we have your support? What do we do? How do we do it?"

I like them. And I hear their speeches. And they don't talk jobs and they don't talk China. When was the last time you heard China is killing us? They're devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldn't believe. It makes it impossible for our companies to compete, impossible. They're killing us.

But you don't hear that from anybody else. You don't hear it from anybody else. And I watch the speeches.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: No more free (inaudible).

 Thank you.

I watch the speeches of these people, and they say the sun will rise, the moon will set, all sorts of wonderful things will happen. And people are saying, "What's going on? I just want a job. Just get me a job. I don't need the rhetoric. I want a job."

And that's what's happening. And it's going to get worse, because remember, Obamacare really kicks in in '16, 2016. Obama is going to be out playing golf. He might be on one of my courses. I would invite him, I actually would say. I have the best courses in the world, so I'd say, you what, if he wants to - I have one right next to the White House, right on the Potomac. If he'd like to play, that's fine.

(APPLAUSE)

In fact, I'd love him to leave early and play, that would be a very good thing.

(LAUGHTER)

But Obamacare kicks in in 2016. Really big league. It is going to be amazingly destructive. Doctors are quitting. I have a friend who's a doctor, and he said to me the other day, "Donald, I never saw anything like it. I have more accountants than I have nurses. It's a disaster. My patients are beside themselves. They had a plan that was good. They have no plan now."

We have to repeal Obamacare, and it can be - and - and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody. Let it be for everybody. But much better and much less expensive for people and for the government. And we can do it.

(APPLAUSE)

AUDIENCE: Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump.

 So I've watched the politicians. I've dealt with them all my life. If you can't make a good deal with a politician, then there's something wrong with you. You're certainly not very good. And that's what we have representing us. They will never make America great again. They don't even have a chance. They're controlled fully - they're controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the donors, and by the special interests, fully.

Yes, they control them. Hey, I have lobbyists. I have to tell you. I have lobbyists that can produce anything for me. They're great. But you know what? it won't happen. It won't happen. Because we have to stop doing things for some people, but for this country, it's destroying our country. We have to stop, and it has to stop now.

AUDIENCE: It needs Trump.

 Now, our country needs - our country needs a truly great leader, and we need a truly great leader now. We need a leader that wrote "The Art of the Deal."

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

 We need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing, can bring back our military, can take care of our vets. Our vets have been abandoned.

(APPLAUSE)

And we also need a cheerleader.

You know, when President Obama was elected, I said, "Well, the one thing, I think he'll do well. I think he'll be a great cheerleader for the country. I think he'd be a great spirit."

He was vibrant. He was young. I really thought that he would be a great cheerleader.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: But not a leader.

 He's not a leader. That's true. You're right about that.

But he wasn't a cheerleader. He's actually a negative force. He's been a negative force. He wasn't a cheerleader; he was the opposite.

We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again. It's not great again.

(APPLAUSE)

We need - we need somebody - we need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again. We can do that.

(APPLAUSE)

And, I will tell you, I love my life. I have a wonderful family. They're saying, "Dad, you're going to do something that's going to be so tough."

You know, all of my life, I've heard that a truly successful person, a really, really successful person and even modestly successful cannot run for public office. Just can't happen. And yet that's the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again.

So ladies and gentlemen...

(APPLAUSE)

I am officially running...

(APPLAUSE)

... for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again.

(APPLAUSE)

It can happen. Our country has tremendous potential. We have tremendous people.

We have people that aren't working. We have people that have no incentive to work. But they're going to have incentive to work, because the greatest social program is a job. And they'll be proud, and they'll love it, and they'll make much more than they would've ever made, and they'll be - they'll be doing so well, and we're going to be thriving as a country, thriving. It can happen.

(APPLAUSE)

I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I tell you that.

(APPLAUSE)

I'll bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many places. I'll bring back our jobs, and I'll bring back our money.

Right now, think of this: We owe China $1.3 trillion. We owe Japan more than that. So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, and then they loan us back the money, and we pay them in interest, and then the dollar goes up so their deal's even better.

How stupid are our leaders? How stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen? How stupid are they?

(APPLAUSE)

I'm going to tell you - thank you. I'm going to tell you a couple of stories about trade, because I'm totally against the trade bill for a number of reasons.

Number one, the people negotiating don't have a clue. Our president doesn't have a clue. He's a bad negotiator.

He's the one that did Bergdahl. We get Bergdahl, they get five killer terrorists that everybody wanted over there.

We get Bergdahl. We get a traitor. We get a no-good traitor, and they get the five people that they wanted for years, and those people are now back on the battlefield trying to kill us. That's the negotiator we have.

Take a look at the deal he's making with Iran. He makes that deal, Israel maybe won't exist very long. It's a disaster, and we have to protect Israel. But...

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, we do. Yes, we do.(APPLAUSE)

 So we need people - I'm a free trader. But the problem with free trade is you need really talented people to negotiate for you. If you don't have talented people, if you don't have great leadership, if you don't have people that know business, not just a political hack that got the job because he made a contribution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs, just about, are gotten, free trade terrible.

Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people, but we have people that are stupid. We have people that aren't smart. And we have people that are controlled by special interests. And it's just not going to work.

So, here's a couple of stories happened recently. A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. And, you know, China comes over and they dump all their stuff, and I buy it. I buy it, because, frankly, I have an obligation to buy it, because they devalue their currency so brilliantly, they just did it recently, and nobody thought they could do it again.

But with all our problems with Russia, with all our problems with everything - everything, they got away with it again. And it's impossible for our people here to compete.

So I want to tell you this story. A friend of mine who's a great manufacturer, calls me up a few weeks ago. He's very upset. I said, "sWhat's your problem?"

He said, "You know, I make great product."

And I said, "I know. I know that because I buy the product."

He said, "I can't get it into China. They won't accept it. I sent a boat over and they actually sent it back. They talked about environmental, they talked about all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it."

I said, "Oh, wait a minute, that's terrible. Does anyone know this?"

He said, "Yeah, they do it all the time with other people."

I said, "They send it back?"

"Yeah. So I finally got it over there and they charged me a big tariff. They're not supposed to be doing that. I told them."

Now, they do charge you tariff on trucks, when we send trucks and other things over there.

Ask Boeing. They wanted Boeing's secrets. They wanted their patents and all their secrets before they agreed to buy planes from Boeing.

Hey, I'm not saying they're stupid. I like China. I sell apartments for - I just sold an apartment for $15 million to somebody from China. Am I supposed to dislike them? I own a big chunk of the Bank of America Building at 1290 Avenue of the Americas, that I got from China in a war. Very valuable.

I love China. The biggest bank in the world is from China. You know where their United States headquarters is located? In this building, in Trump Tower. I love China. People say, "Oh, you don't like China?"

No, I love them. But their leaders are much smarter than our leaders, and we can't sustain ourself with that. There's too much - it's like - it's like take the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high school football team. That's the difference between China's leaders and our leaders.

They are ripping us. We are rebuilding China. We're rebuilding many countries. China, you go there now, roads, bridges, schools, you never saw anything like it. They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge look like small potatoes. And they're all over the place.

We have all the cards, but we don't know how to use them. We don't even know that we have the cards, because our leaders don't understand the game. We could turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly.

Now they're going militarily. They're building a military island in the middle of the South China sea. A military island. Now, our country could never do that because we'd have to get environmental clearance, and the environmentalist wouldn't let our country - we would never build in an ocean. They built it in about one year, this massive military port.

They're building up their military to a point that is very scary. You have a problem with ISIS. You have a bigger problem with China.

And, in my opinion, the new China, believe it or not, in terms of trade, is Mexico.

So this man tells me about the manufacturing. I say, "That's a terrible story. I hate to hear it."

But I have another one, Ford.

So Mexico takes a company, a car company that was going to build in Tennessee, rips it out. Everybody thought the deal was dead. Reported it in the Wall Street Journal recently. Everybody thought it was a done deal. It's going in and that's going to be it, going into Tennessee. Great state, great people.TRUMP: All of a sudden, at the last moment, this big car manufacturer, foreign, announces they're not going to Tennessee. They're gonna spend their $1 billion in Mexico instead. Not good.

Now, Ford announces a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a $2.5 billion car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico. $2.5 billion, it's going to be one of the largest in the world. Ford. Good company.

So I announced that I'm running for president. I would...

(APPLAUSE)

... one of the early things I would do, probably before I even got in - and I wouldn't even use - you know, I have - I know the smartest negotiators in the world. I know the good ones. I know the bad ones. I know the overrated ones.

You get a lot of them that are overrated. They're not good. They think they are. They get good stories, because the newspapers get buffaloed (ph). But they're not good.

But I know the negotiators in the world, and I put them one for each country. Believe me, folks. We will do very, very well, very, very well.

But I wouldn't even waste my time with this one. I would call up the head of Ford, who I know. If I was president, I'd say, "Congratulations. I understand that you're building a nice $2.5 billion car factory in Mexico and that you're going to take your cars and sell them to the United States zero tax, just flow them across the border."

And you say to yourself, "How does that help us," right? "How does that help us? Where is that good"? It's not.

So I would say, "Congratulations. That's the good news. Let me give you the bad news. Every car and every truck and every part manufactured in this plant that comes across the border, we're going to charge you a 35-percent tax, and that tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the transaction, and that's it.

Now, here's what is going to happen. If it's not me in the position, it's one of these politicians that we're running against, you know, the 400 people that we're (inaudible). And here's what's going to happen. They're not so stupid. They know it's not a good thing, and they may even be upset by it. But then they're going to get a call from the donors or probably from the lobbyist for Ford and say, "You can't do that to Ford, because Ford takes care of me and I take care of you, and you can't do that to Ford."

And guess what? No problem. They're going to build in Mexico. They're going to take away thousands of jobs. It's very bad for us.

So under President Trump, here's what would happen:

(APPLAUSE)

The head of Ford will call me back, I would say within an hour after I told them the bad news. But it could be he'd want to be cool, and he'll wait until the next day. You know, they want to be a little cool.

And he'll say, "Please, please, please." He'll beg for a little while, and I'll say, "No interest." Then he'll call all sorts of political people, and I'll say, "Sorry, fellas. No interest," because I don't need anybody's money. It's nice. I don't need anybody's money.

I'm using my own money. I'm not using the lobbyists. I'm not using donors. I don't care. I'm really rich. I (inaudible).

(APPLAUSE)

And by the way, I'm not even saying that in a - that's the kind of mindset, that's the kind of thinking you need for this country.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Absolutely.

 So - because we got to make the country rich.

It sounds crass. Somebody said, "Oh, that's crass." It's not crass.

We got $18 trillion in debt. We got nothing but problems.

We got a military that needs equipment all over the place. We got nuclear weapons that are obsolete.

We've got nothing. We've got Social Security that's going to be destroyed if somebody like me doesn't bring money into the country. All these other people want to cut the hell out of it. I'm not going to cut it at all; I'm going to bring money in, and we're going to save it.

(APPLAUSE)

But here's what's going to happen:

After I'm called by 30 friends of mine who contributed to different campaigns, after I'm called by all of the special interests and by the - the donors and by the lobbyists - and they have zero chance at convincing me, zero - I'll get a call the next day from the head of Ford. He'll say. "Please reconsider," I'll say no.

He'll say, "Mr. President, we've decided to move the plant back to the United States, and we're not going to build it in Mexico." That's it. They have no choice. They have no choice.

There are hundreds of things like that. I'll give you another example.TRUMP: Saudi Arabia, they make $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day. I love the Saudis. Many are in this building. They make a billion dollars a day. Whenever they have problems, we send over the ships. We say "we're gonna protect." What are we doing? They've got nothing but money.

If the right person asked them, they'd pay a fortune. They wouldn't be there except for us.

And believe me, you look at the border with Yemen. You remember Obama a year ago, Yemen was a great victory. Two weeks later, the place was blown up. Everybody got out - and they kept our equipment.

They always keep our equipment. We ought to send used equipment, right? They always keep our equipment. We ought to send some real junk, because, frankly, it would be - we ought to send our surplus. We're always losing this gorgeous brand-new stuff.

But look at that border with Saudi Arabia. Do you really think that these people are interested in Yemen? Saudi Arabia without us is gone. They;re gone.

And I'm the one that made all of the right predictions about Iraq. You know, all of these politicians that I'm running against now - it's so nice to say I'm running as opposed to if I run, if I run. I'm running.

(APPLAUSE)

But all of these politicians that I'm running against now, they're trying to disassociate. I mean, you looked at Bush, it took him five days to answer the question on Iraq. He couldn't answer the question. He didn't know. I said, "Is he intelligent?"

Then I looked at Rubio. He was unable to answer the question, is Iraq a good thing or bad thing? He didn't know. He couldn't answer the question.

How are these people gonna lead us? How are we gonna - how are we gonna go back and make it great again? We can't. They don't have a clue. They can't lead us. They can't. They can't even answer simple questions. It was terrible.

But Saudi Arabia is in big, big trouble. Now, thanks to fracking and other things, the oil is all over the place. And I used to say it, there are ships at sea, and this was during the worst crisis, that were loaded up with oil, and the cartel kept the price up, because, again, they were smarter than our leaders. They were smarter than our leaders.

There is so much wealth out there that can make our country so rich again, and therefore make it great again. Because we need money. We're dying. We're dying. We need money. We have to do it. And we need the right people.

So Ford will come back. They'll all come back. And I will say this, this is going to be an election, in my opinion, that's based on competence.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

 Somebody said - thank you, darlin'.

(APPLAUSE)

Somebody said to me the other day, a reporter, a very nice reporter, "But, Mr. Trump, you're not a nice person."

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We don't need nice.

 That's true. But actually I am. I think I am a nice person. People that know me, like me. Does my family like me? I think so, right. Look at my family. I'm proud of my family.

(APPLAUSE)

By the way, speaking of my family, Melania, Barron, Kai, Donnie, Don, Vanessa, Tiffany, Evanka did a great job. Did she do a great job?

(APPLAUSE)

Great. Jared (ph), Laura and Eric, I'm very proud of my family. They're a great family.

(APPLAUSE)

So the reporter said to me the other day, "But, Mr. Trump, you're not a nice person. How can you get people to vote for you?"

I said, "I don't know." I said, "I think that number one, I am a nice person. I give a lot of money away to charities and other things. I think I'm actually a very nice person."

But, I said, "This is going to be an election that's based on competence, because people are tired of these nice people. And they're tired of being ripped off by everybody in the world. And they're tired of spending more money on education than any nation in the world per capita, than any nation in the world, and we are 26th in the world, 25 countries are better than us in education. And some of them are like third world countries. But we're becoming a third word country, because of our infrastructure, our airports, our roads, everything. So one of the things I did, and I said, you know what I'll do. I'll do it. Because a lot of people said, "He'll never run. Number one, he won't want to give up his lifestyle."

 They're right about that, but I'm doing it.

Number two, I'm a private company, so nobody knows what I'm worth. And the one thing is that when you run, you have to announce and certify to all sorts of governmental authorities your net worth.

So I said, "That's OK." I'm proud of my net worth. I've done an amazing job.

I started off - thank you - I started off in a small office with my father in Brooklyn and Queens, and my father said - and I love my father. I learned so much. He was a great negotiator. I learned so much just sitting at his feet playing with blocks listening to him negotiate with subcontractors. But I learned a lot.

But he used to say, "Donald, don't go into Manhattan. That's the big leagues. We don't know anything about that. Don't do it."

I said, "I gotta go into Manhattan. I gotta build those big buildings. I gotta do it, Dad. I've gotta do it."

And after four or five years in Brooklyn, I ventured into Manhattan and did a lot of great deals - the Grand Hyatt Hotel. I was responsible for the convention center on the west side. I did a lot of great deals, and I did them early and young. And now I'm building all over the world, and I love what I'm doing.

But they all said, a lot of the pundits on television, "Well, Donald will never run, and one of the main reasons is he's private and he's probably not as successful as everybody thinks."

So I said to myself, you know, nobody's ever going to know unless I run, because I'm really proud of my success. I really am.

(APPLAUSE)

I've employed - I've employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. That means medical. That means education. That means everything.

So a large accounting firm and my accountants have been working for months, because it's big and complex, and they've put together a statement, a financial statement, just a summary. But everything will be filed eventually with the government, and we don't extensions or anything. We'll be filing it right on time. We don't need anything.

(APPLAUSE)

And it was even reported incorrectly yesterday, because they said, "He had assets of $9 billion." So I said (ph), "No, that's the wrong number. That's the wrong number. Not assets."

So they put together this. And before I say it, I have to say this. I made it the old-fashioned way. It's real estate. You know, it's real estate.

It's labor, and it's unions good and some bad and lots of people that aren't in unions, and it's all over the place and building all over the world.

And I have assets - big accounting firm, one of the most highly respected - 9 billion 240 million dollars.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah.

 And I have liabilities of about $500 million (ph). That's long-term debt, very low interest rates.

In fact, one of the big banks came to me and said, "Donald, you don't have enough borrowings. Could we loan you $4 billion"? I said, "I don't need it. I don't want it. And I've been there. I don't want it."

But in two seconds, they give me whatever I wanted. So I have a total net worth, and now with the increase, it'll be well-over $10 billion. But here, a total net worth of - net worth, not assets, not - a net worth, after all debt, after all expenses, the greatest assets - Trump Tower, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, Bank of America building in San Francisco, 40 Wall Street, sometimes referred to as the Trump building right opposite the New York - many other places all over the world.

So the total is $8,737,540,00.

Now I'm not doing that...

(APPLAUSE)

I'm not doing that to brag, because you know what? I don't have to brag. I don't have to, believe it or not.

I'm doing that to say that that's the kind of thinking our country needs. We need that thinking. We have the opposite thinking.

We have losers. We have losers. We have people that don't have it. We have people that are morally corrupt. We have people that are selling this country down the drain.

So I put together this statement, and the only reason I'm telling you about it today is because we really do have to get going, because if we have another three or four years - you know, we're at $8 trillion now. We're soon going to be at $20 trillion.TRUMP: According to the economists - who I'm not big believers in, but, nevertheless, this is what they're saying - that $24 trillion - we're very close - that's the point of no return. $24 trillion. We will be there soon. That's when we become Greece. That's when we become a country that's unsalvageable. And we're gonna be there very soon. We're gonna be there very soon.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Make America strong.

 So, just to sum up, I would do various things very quickly. I would repeal and replace the big lie, Obamacare.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah.

(APPLAUSE)

I would build a great wall, and nobody builds walls better than me, believe me, and I'll build them very inexpensively, I will build a great, great wall on our southern border. And I will have Mexico pay for that wall.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

 Mark my words.

(APPLAUSE)

Nobody would be tougher on ISIS than Donald Trump. Nobody.

(APPLAUSE)

I will find - within our military, I will find the General Patton or I will find General MacArthur, I will find the right guy. I will find the guy that's going to take that military and make it really work. Nobody, nobody will be pushing us around.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

(APPLAUSE)

 I will stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons. And we won't be using a man like Secretary Kerry that has absolutely no concept of negotiation, who's making a horrible and laughable deal, who's just being tapped along as they make weapons right now, and then goes into a bicycle race at 72 years old, and falls and breaks his leg. I won't be doing that. And I promise I will never be in a bicycle race. That I can tell you.

(APPLAUSE)

I will immediately terminate President Obama's illegal executive order on immigration, immediately.

(APPLAUSE)

Fully support and back up the Second Amendment.

(APPLAUSE)

Now, it's very interesting. Today I heard it. Through stupidity, in a very, very hard core prison, interestingly named Clinton, two vicious murderers, two vicious people escaped, and nobody knows where they are. And a woman was on television this morning, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump," and she was telling other people, and I actually called her, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump, I always was against guns. I didn't want guns. And now since this happened" - it's up in the prison area - "my husband and I are finally in agreement, because he wanted the guns. We now have a gun on every table. We're ready to start shooting."

I said, "Very interesting."

So protect the Second Amendment.

(APPLAUSE)

End - end Common Core. Common Core should - it is a disaster. Bush is totally in favor of Common Core. I don't see how he can possibly get the nomination. He's weak on immigration. He's in favor of Common Core. How the hell can you vote for this guy? You just can't do it. We have to end - education has to be local.

Rebuild the country's infrastructure.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah.

 Nobody can do that like me. Believe me. It will be done on time, on budget, way below cost, way below what anyone ever thought.

I look at the roads being built all over the country, and I say I can build those things for one-third. What they do is unbelievable, how bad.

You know, we're building on Pennsylvania Avenue, the Old Post Office, we're converting it into one of the world's great hotels. It's gonna be the best hotel in Washington, D.C. We got it from the General Services Administration in Washington. The Obama administration. We got it. It was the most highly sought after - or one of them, but I think the most highly sought after project in the history of General Services. We got it. People were shocked, Trump got it.

Well, I got it for two reasons. Number one, we're really good. Number two, we had a really good plan. And I'll add in the third, we had a great financial statement. Because the General Services, who are terrific people, by the way, and talented people, they wanted to do a great job. And they wanted to make sure it got built.

 So we have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airports. You come into La Guardia Airport, it's like we're in a third world country. You look at the patches and the 40-year-old floor. They throw down asphalt, and they throw.

You look at these airports, we are like a third world country. And I come in from China and I come in from Qatar and I come in from different places, and they have the most incredible airports in the world. You come to back to this country and you have LAX, disaster. You have all of these disastrous airports. We have to rebuild our infrastructure.

Save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without cuts. Have to do it.

(APPLAUSE)

Get rid of the fraud. Get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it. People have been paying it for years. And now many of these candidates want to cut it. You save it by making the United States, by making us rich again, by taking back all of the money that's being lost.

Renegotiate our foreign trade deals.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

(APPLAUSE)

 Reduce our $18 trillion in debt, because, believe me, we're in a bubble. We have artificially low interest rates. We have a stock market that, frankly, has been good to me, but I still hate to see what's happening. We have a stock market that is so bloated.

Be careful of a bubble because what you've seen in the past might be small potatoes compared to what happens. So be very, very careful.

And strengthen our military and take care of our vets. So, so important.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

(APPLAUSE)

 Sadly, the American dream is dead.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Bring it back.

 But if I get elected president I will bring it back bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and we will make America great again.

Thank you. Thank you very much.


















Thank you so much.  That's so nice.  Isn't he a great guy.  He doesn't get a fair press; he doesn't get it.  It's just not fair.  And I have to tell you I'm here, and very strongly here, because I have great respect for Steve King and have great respect likewise for Citizens United, David and everybody, and tremendous resect for the Tea Party.  Also, also the people of Iowa.  They have something in common.  Hard-working people.  They want to work, they want to make the country great.  I love the people of Iowa.  So that's the way it is.  Very simple.  
With that said, our country is really headed in the wrong direction with a president who is doing an absolutely terrible job.  The world is collapsing around us, and many of the problems we've caused.  Our president is either grossly incompetent, a word that more and more people are using, and I think I was the first to use it, or he has a completely different agenda than you want to know about, which could be possible.  In any event, Washington is broken, and our country is in serious trouble and total disarray.  Very simple.  Politicians are all talk, no action.  They are all talk and no action.  And it's constant; it never ends.  
And I'm a conservative, actually very conservative, and I'm a Republican.  And I'm very disappointed by our Republican politicians.  Because they let the president get away with absolute murder.  You see always, oh we're going to do this, we're going to--.  Nothing ever happens; nothing ever happens.  
You look at Obamacare.  A total catastrophe and by the way it really kicks in in '16 and it is going to be a disaster.  People are closing up shops.  Doctors are quitting the business.  I have a friend of mine who's a doctor, a very good doctor, a very successful guy.  He said, I have more accountants than I have patients.  And he needs because it is so complicated and so terrible and he's never had that before and he's going to close up his business.  And he was very successful guy.  But it's happening more and more.
Look at Obamacare with a $5 billion website.  I have many websites, many, many websites.  They're all over the place.  But for $10, okay?
Now everything about Obamacare was a lie.  It was a filthy lie.  And when you think about it, lies, I mean are they prosecuted?  Does anyone do anything?  And what are the Republican politicians doing about it?  He lied about the doctor, he lied about every aspect.  You can keep your plan.  And you've all heard that hundreds of times.  That's like the real estate location, location.  I don't even say it anymore because everybody goes location, location.  But you have heard this about Obamacare.  
And it's disgraceful.  It's a big, fat, horrible lie.  Your deductibles are going through the roof.  You're not going to get--unless you're hit by an army tank, you're not going to get coverage.  And people that had plans that they loved, that they really loved, don't have those plans anymore.  So it's a real, real disaster.  And somebody has to repeal and replace Obamacare.  And they have to do it fast and not just talk about it.
Now, we have to build a fence.  And it's got to be a beauty.  Who can build better than Trump?  I build; it's what I do.  I build; I build nice fences, but I build great buildings.  Fences are easy, believe me.  I saw the other day on television people just walking across the border.  They're walking.  The military is standing there holding guns and people are just walking right in front, coming into our country.  It is so terrible.  It is so unfair.  It is so incompetent.  And we don't have the best coming in.  We have people that are criminals, we have people that are crooks.  You can certainly have terrorists.  You can certainly have Islamic terrorists.  You can have anything coming across the border.  We don't do anything about it.  So I would say that if I run and if I win, I would certainly start by building a very, very powerful border.

Again, the politicians talk about it and they do nothing about it.  Benghazi.  Oh, Benghazi, Benghazi.  Everything is Benghazi.  What happens?  Nothing.  
IRS, e-mails.  I get sued all the time, okay.  I run a big business.  You know I've always said it's very, very hard for a person who is very successful.  I have done so many deals.  Almost all of them have been tremendously successful.  You'll see that when I file my statements.  I mean you will see; you will be very proud of me, okay.  But I've always said, and I said it strongly, it's very hard for somebody that does tremendous numbers of deals to run for politics, run for political office, any office, let alone president.  Because you've done so much; you've beaten so many people; you've created so many--  Look, Obama, what did he do?  No deal.  He never did a deal.  He did one deal.  A house.  And if you did that house you'd be in jail right now, okay.  He got away with murder.  But I can tell you, e-mails.  IRS, the e-mails, thousands of them, they were lost; they were lost.  If you were in my world you would know that e-mails can't be lost; they can't be lost.  So why aren't our politicians finding out where those e-mails are?  
They talk about executive orders and they talk about immigration and they talk about oh well we have to stop the border; that's the end of it.  Believe me if I did something you would have a border that would be great.  But they talk about it.  And then you have a president that does an executive order.  Nobody even heard of an executive order.  He does it to let people come in and nobody does anything about executive orders.  Why didn't they go to court and ask for declaratory judgment--which is something that when you know somebody is going to go after you and when it's in writing, and he's been saying it for a long time; he said, I'm going to approve this and that--why didn't our Republicans go in and get a declaratory judgment from the courts because you could have started the process six months earlier.  Instead they have a weak lawsuit, that probably the time it's finished, I know so much about this, six, seven, eight years from now everyone's going to forget about it.  We'll be into a different mode, and our country will be further destroyed.  So we have to do something. 
Jobs.  China.  I mean I've made so much money fighting against the Chinese.  One of the best deals I ever did was against the Chinese, and they respect me for it.  And I know them.  And they say, we can't believe what we're getting away with.  We can't believe how stupid your leaders are.  They tell me that.  Now they don't know I'm going to go and make a speech about it, but why not.  But they tell me that.  
And by the way, especially for the folks here that sell so much--goods, I mean the goods you sell are incredible; I don't know if you've been watching what's happening with the devaluations of so many countries.  The Euro, China is going crazy with the devaluation.  I never thought that they'd have the guts to do what they're doing.  They are devaluing down to nothing.  And what it's going to do is make it impossible for you to sell your product; it's going make it impossible for you to compete.  And they're getting away with it.  And they wouldn't have even done it two years ago, but now they feel we're so weak and we have so many different problems all over the world that they can do it.  But you watch this devaluation of all of it.  I mean the Euro, China, Mexico; everybody is devaluing.  And when you hear the dollar is getting stronger, it sounds good.  You know it's one of those things, sounds good.  Be very careful.  Be very careful.  Because we're just going to lose more and more business to these foreign countries that really know what they are doing.  They have it set.  Don't forget another thing.  China became the number one economic power a year ago.  That was unthinkable; to think that that was going to happen.  It was absolutely unthinkable.  So it happened and it's very, very sad.  
Now we spent $2 trillion in Iraq.  We got nothing.  They don't even respect us; they don't even care about us.  Until they started getting their ass kicked, and call, oh please come back and help us.  We want you out; then all of the sudden a new group forms, ISIS.  By the way, you know how they formed.  They took the oil.  And for those of you that know and love Donald Trump--there are some of you--have I been saying for four years, keep the oil.  So now ISIS has the oil.  And the stuff that ISIS doesn't have, Iran is going to take.  So we get nothing.  We have $2 trillion and we have thousands of lives lost, thousands, and we have, what do we have.  I mean I walk down the streets of New York and I see so many wounded warriors, incredible people.  And we have to help those people, we have to help our vets, we have to help our military, we have to build our military.  But, and we have to do it fast; we have to do it fast.  We have incompetent people.  They put people in charge that have no clue what they're doing.  It needs money.  
We have to make our country rich again so we do that, so we can save Social Security.  'Cause I'm not a cutter; I'll probably be the only Republican that does not want to cut Social Security.  I'm not a cutter of Social Security; I want to make the country rich so that Social Security can be afforded, and Medicare and Medicaid.  Get rid of the waste, get rid of the fraud, but you deserve your Social Security; you've been paying your Security.  And like, I like Congressman Ryan, I like a lot of the people that are talking about you know cutting Social Security, and by the way the Democrats are eating your lunch on this issue.  It's an issue that you're not going to win; you've got to make the country rich again and strong again so that you can afford it, and so you can afford military, and all of the other things.  
Now, we have a game changer now, and the game changer is nuclear weapons.  We really do have to get strong, and we have to get strong fast.  We can't let Iran get a nuclear weapon.  We can't do it.  Can't do it.  We cannot let that happen.  You know in the old days, I would have said 100 years ago, 50 years ago, 30 years ago, pull out and let them fight each other.  
Here we are in Syria.  We're fighting people that want to overturn Syria.  Think of this.  We're fighting ISIS, but ISIS wants to overturn the government.  Maybe you let them fight for a little while and then you take out the one that remains, okay.  But think of it; think of it.  ISIS is fighting them and we are bombing the hell out of them, but we want Syria to fall.  There are so many things; there are so many things.  
But the one game changer that we have to be careful with, that we never really had to think about  too much before, other than a cetain number of years ago, is the nuclear.  Nuclear today, it's not like soldiers in uniforms shooting rifles.  You can take out the East Coast of this country, you can take out large sections of the Midwest, you can take out things that were unthinkable.  The power.  And we have to be in a position where that never, ever, ever, every happens.  We've never had this before.  
We have a situation in Afghanistan; we're spending tremendous amounts of money there.  We're trying to do the right thing.  We have leadership, again--no leadership respects us.  You know, leadership of other places never respect stupid people, okay, that's one thing you're going to find.  The same thing is happening there.  And I never knew that Afghanistan until a year ago or so, Afghanistan has tremendous wealth in minerals, different, not the oil, but minerals.  And we're fighting here, and on the other side of the mountain China is taking out all the minerals.  They're taking it out.  Trillion of dollars and millions of dollars of minerals.  So we're fighting here and they are taking it out, looking at us and saying thank you very much sucker.  It's really, really crazy.

So we have to rebuild quickly our infrastructure of this country.  If we don't--  The other day in Ohio a bridge collapsed.  Bridges are collapsing all over the country.  The reports on bridges and the like are unbelievable, what's happening with our infrastructure.
I go to Saudi Arabia, I go to Dubai; I am doing big jobs in Dubai.  I go to various different places.  I go to China.  They are building a bridge on every corner.  They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge like small time stuff.  They're building the most incredible things you have ever seen.  They are building airports in Qatar--which they like to say "cutter" but I've always said "qatar" so I'll keep it "qatar" what the hell.  But they're building, they're building an airport and have just completed an airport the likes of which you have never seen, in Dubai an airport the likes of which you have never seen.  And then I come back to LaGuardia where the runways have potholes.  The place is falling apart.  You go into the main terminal and they have a terraza floor that's so old it's falling apart.  And they have a hole in it, and they replace it with asphalt.  So you have a white terraza floor and they put asphalt all over the place.  This is inside, not outside.  And I just left Dubai where they have the most incredible thing you've ever seen.  In fact my pilot said oh Mr. Trump this is such an honor.  I said it's not an honor; they're just smart.  But you look at LAX, and you look at Kennedy Airport, and you look at our airports generally, you look at our roadways where they're crumbling.  
You look at all of the things that are bad--  I'll give you an example. And this isn't part of what I was going to say, but I ride down the highways and somebody makes those guard rails.  You know the guard rails.  The ones that sort of go like this (demonstrates with hand) that are always  bent, rusted and horrible.  Did you ever see more than like 20 feet which isn't corroded, or bent or the heat, if it gets too hot, it just crushes.  Now they've been selling this thing for 25 years.  Why doesn't someone stop them and get something that works.  Because they don't know; they don't know what's happening.  Somebody made a lot of money on that.  They don't know what is happening. 
So we have to make our country great again.  We have to rebuild our country.  And we have a long way to go.  We are just in such serious trouble because we owe so much money.  Now we owe it to the Chinese, a lot of it.  We owe it to other countries.  They're the ones that hold the debt.  And then we give them money.  We have countries that we owe money to and yet we're giving them subsidies.  I just ordered thousands of television sets and between LG and Samsung and I mean you know--  No American company comes to see and comes to bid.  It's South Korea, and whenever they have a problem we send the battleships, we send the destroyers, we send our airplanes, we're going to protect them.  What are we doing; why aren't they paying us?  Why aren't they paying us; what are we doing?  I order thousands and thousands of sets all the time, for some reason it's South Korea.  You know whether it's China, South Korea, but in this case televisions, South Korea.  Why aren't they doing something to justify what is going on?  
Now, we have a very important election coming up.  We have a presidential election coming up. And we have some good people.  Nobody like Trump of course, but these are minor details.  We have some good people.
It' can't be Mitt because Mitt ran and failed.  He failed.  I mean I liked him.  Look--like him, dislike him--the 47% statement that he made, that's not going away.  The Romneycare from Massachusetts, that's not going away.  What do you think they're going to say oh we won't bring that up this time.  It's not fair because it was a long t--  That doesn't work.  But more importantly, he choked.  Something happened to him in the last month.  He had that election won.  And let me tell you something.  That election, sort of like a dealmaker that can't close the deal.  I know many of those guys; they get it up to the one-yard line, they go ah, ah I can't close it.  Or a golfer that can't sink the three-footer to win the tournament.  And there are many of them.  Most people are like that; I mean most people are like that.  You can't give somebody another chance, 'cause actually I think this election is tougher to win than beating a failed president.  I really do.  I think beating Obama would have been a much easier one than the one that's coming up, which is sad to say but true.  So you can't have Romney.  He choked.
You can't have Bush.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now I made that statement very strongly, and now every one says the last thing--  You know they copied it.  I'll be accused of copying the statement; that's the bad thing.  But I said it.  I was the one that said it first, and I mean it.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now, he's totally in favor of Common Core; that's a disaster, that's bad, it should be local and all of that.  But he's totally in favor of Common Core.  He's very, very weak on immigration.  Don't forget--remember his statement--they come for love.  I say, what?  Come for love?  You've got these people coming, half of them are criminals.  They're coming for love?  They're coming for a lot of other reasons, and it's not love.  And when he runs, you got to remember his brother really gave us Obama.  I was never a big fan, but his brother gave us Obama.  'Cause Abraham Lincoln coming home back from the dead could not have won the election because it was going so badly and the economy was just absolutely in shambles that last couple of months.  And then he appointed Justice Roberts.  And Jeb wanted Justice Roberts.  And Justice Roberts basically approved Obamacare in a shocking decision that nobody believes.  So you can't have Jeb Bush.  And he's going to lose aside from that; he's not going to win.  So Mitt and--you just can't have those two.  That's it.  That's it.  It's so simple.
So just in summing up and I just wrote a few of these little points down because it's very important.  And I watch these teleprompters, and by the way I think any president candidate that runs should not be allowed to use a teleprompter, because we got one that uses teleprompters.  And people say, oh he is so quick on his feet.  He is reading it.  I mean give me a break.  Everything is read.  You don't really test the mettle of a man or a woman unless they can get up on stage and talk.  And that's what we ended up getting--the king of teleprompters.  But, so when I look at these things here I say you know what, it's so much easier, it would be so nice, just bah, pa, bah, pa, bah, bing, bing, bing.  No problems, get off stage, everybody falls asleep and that's the end of that.  But we have to do something about these teleprompters.  
But in looking at these situations--  I built an incredible company.  And you'll see that.  An incredible company; a wonderful company.  I employ thousands of people and I love doing what I'm doing.  And in a certain way, I wish I weren't doing this, but our country is in such trouble and would be so easy to fix.  We have such great potential.
So if I run for president and if I win, I would totally succeed in: 
creating jobs; 
defeating ISIS and stopping the Islamic terrorists--and you have to do that;
reducing the budget deficit--so important, have to do it;
securing our Southern border--and I mean seriously securing it;
stopping nuclear weapons in Iran and elsewhere; 
saving Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, without cutting it down to the bone because it's not fair to people that have been paying for their whole lives and other people and it's not fair to future people coming up, and we can do it;
repealing Obamacare and replacing it with something far better for the people, and far less expensive, both for the people and for the country.  And believe me there are plans that are so much better for everybody.  And everybody can be covered.  I'm not saying leave 50-percent of the people out.  Everybody can be c-- This plan is just a basic disaster.  Nobody knows.  As bad as the website was, this is how bad the plan itself is;
fixing our country's infrastructure, our bridges, our schools, our highways, our airports.  And that, I can tell you, nobody is close to Trump.  I just got the best hotel in North America.  I'm building, which is sort of interesting, think of this one.  I'm building one of the great hotels of the world on Pennsylvania Avenue, right opposite the White House, between the White House and Congress.  Right on Penn.--  The  Old Post Office site, and I got it from Obama.  Do you believe that?  And everybody wanted it.  So, I can't believe it myself.  But it's going to be fantastic;  
and so many other things. 
I know what needs to be done to make America great again.  We can make this country great again.  The potential is enormous.  And I am serious thinking of running for president because I can do the job. 














Thank you very much. It's great to be in a wonderful city -- New York. And it's an honor to have everybody here.

(APPLAUSE)

(CROWD: "Trump, Trump, Trump!")

Our country is in serious trouble.

Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East. The oil that, when we left Iraq, we should have taken, now ISIS has. And what they don't have, Iran has. I want to have the strongest military that we've ever had -- and we need it more now than ever -- but I said, "Don't hit Iraq. You're going to totally destabilize the Middle East. Iran is going to take over the Middle East. Iran -- and somebody else -- will get the oil."

We spent $2 trillion in Iraq. We lost thousands of lives. We have thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers. And every time we give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave it. 2,300 Humvees were left behind for the enemy.

Last quarter -- it was just announced -- our gross domestic product was below zero. Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978. And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent. A lot of people can't get jobs. They can't get jobs because there are no jobs -- because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs.

Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger. And we as a country are getting weaker. Our nuclear arsenal doesn't work. We have a disaster called Obamacare. Deductibles are through the roof.

(CROWD: "Trump, Trump, Trump!")

Politicians are all talk, no action. My fellow Republicans want me to support them. And they don't talk jobs and they don't talk China. China is killing us; they're devaluing their currency to a level that makes it impossible for our companies to compete. I watch speeches, and they say wonderful things will happen. And the people are saying, "I just want a job. I don't need the rhetoric; I want a job."

Obamacare kicks in in 2016. It's going to be destructive. Patients are beside themselves; they had a plan that was good, and they have no plan now. We have to repeal Obamacare. It can be replaced with something much better -- much better and much less expensive for people and for the government. We can do it.

Politicians will never make America great. They're controlled by lobbyists, donors, and special interests. We have to stop doing things for some people; it's destroying our country. It has to stop now.

Our country needs a truly great leader. We need a leader that can bring back jobs, bring back manufacturing, bring back our military, take care of our vets. And we also need a cheerleader. We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again.

I have the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again. So ladies and gentlemen, I am officially running for president of the United States.

(APPLAUSE)

(CROWD: "Trump, Trump, Trump!")

We are going to make our country great again.

(APPLAUSE)

Our country has tremendous potential; we have tremendous people. And the greatest social program is a job. I will be "the jobs President." I'll bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan. I'll bring back our jobs, and I'll bring back our money. We owe China $1.3 trillion; we owe Japan more than that.

Our president is a bad negotiator. The deal he's making with Iran -- he makes that deal, Israel won't exist very long. We have to protect Israel.

I'm a free trader. But the problem with free trade is you need talented people to negotiate for you. If you don't have talented people, if you don't have great leadership, if you don't have people that know business, if you have people that aren't smart -- people that are controlled by special interests -- it's just not going to work.

China's leaders are much smarter than our leaders. They're building a military island in the middle of the South China sea. They built it in about one year. They're building up their military to a point that it's a problem. And the new China -- in terms of trade -- is Mexico. So I'm running for president.

(APPLAUSE)

(CROWD: "Trump, Trump, Trump!")

$18 trillion in debt; a military that needs equipment; nuclear weapons that are obsolete -- what are we doing?

(CROWD MEMBER: "We need Trump!")

Bush took five days to answer the question -- Rubio was unable to answer the question -- "Was Iraq a good thing or bad thing?" How are these people going to lead us? They can't. They can't make our country rich again, and therefore make it great again.

We need the right people. This is going to be an election that's based on competence. This is going to be an election that's based on competence because people are tired of being ripped off; they're tired of spending more money on education than any nation in the world per capita, and twenty-five countries are better than us in education.

We're becoming a third-world country because of our infrastructure, our airports, our roads.

(CROWD MEMBER: "We need Trump!")

(APPLAUSE)

I started off in a small office with my father in Brooklyn. I love my father; he was a great negotiator. I learned so much just sitting at his feet. After four years in Brooklyn, I ventured into Manhattan and did a lot of deals: the Grand Hyatt Hotel; the convention center on the West Side. I'm proud of my success. I've employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. I have assets of $9,240,000,000. I have a total net worth over $10 billion. I'm not bragging -- that's the kind of thinking our country needs. According to the economists, we will soon become Greece -- a country that's unsalvageable. We're going to be there soon.

So I would repeal and replace Obamacare, and I would build a wall on our southern border. Nobody would be tougher on ISIS. I will find, within our military, the right guy to take that military and make it really work. I will stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons. I will immediately terminate President Obama's illegal executive order on immigration; protect the Second Amendment; end Common Core; rebuild the country's infrastructure -- our bridges, our roadways, our airports; save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security -- get rid of fraud, waste, and abuse, taking back all of the money that's being lost; renegotiate our foreign trade deals; reduce our $18 trillion in debt; strengthen our military; and take care of our vets.

(APPLAUSE)

The American dream is dead. But if I get elected president, I will bring it back bigger and better and stronger than ever before.

(APPLAUSE)

We will make America great again.

(APPLAUSE)

Thank you. Thank you very much. 








I'm Donald Trump. I wrote "The Art of the Deal". I say not in a braggadocious way, I've made billions and billions of dollars dealing with people all over the world, and I want to put whatever that talent is to work for this country so we have great trade deals, we make our country rich again, we make it great again. We build our military, we take care of our vets, we get rid of Obamacare, and we have a great life altogether.

(APPLAUSE)

Well, first of all, Rand Paul shouldn't even be on this stage. He's number 11, he's got 1 percent in the polls, and how he got up here, there's far too many people anyway.

As far as temperament - and we all know that - as far as temperament, I think I have a great temperament. I built a phenomenal business with incredible, iconic assets, one of the really truly great real-estate businesses.

And I may be an entertainer, because I've had tremendous success with number-one bestsellers all over the place, with "The Apprentice" and everything else I've done.

But I will tell you this: What I am far and away greater than an entertainer is a businessman, and that's the kind of mindset this country needs to bring it back, because we owe $19 trillion right now, $19 trillion, and you need this kind of thinking to bring our country back.

And believe me, my temperament is very good, very calm. But we will be respected outside of this country. We are not respected now.

(APPLAUSE)

I never attacked him on his look, and believe me, there's plenty of subject matter right there.

(LAUGHTER)

I've actually been in politics all my life, although I've been on that side as opposed to this side. I'm now a politician for about three months. Obviously, I'm doing pretty well. I'm number one in every polls (sic) by a lot.

But the qualification is that I've dealt with people all over the world, been successful all over the world. Everything I've done virtually has been a tremendous success.

When markets changed, when things turned, I heard Governor Pataki, who, by the way, was a failed governor in New York, a very seriously failed - he wouldn't be elected dog catcher right now. I heard what he had to say.

And I will tell you this: Atlantic City, I've made a tremendous amount of money in Atlantic City. I left seven years ago, I've gotten great credit for my timing, and that's what I'm all about.

I'm a businessman, did really well, really well, and Jeb, what I want to do is put that ability into this country to make our country rich again. And I can do that, and I'm not sure that anybody else in the group will be able to do that.

(APPLAUSE)

Every major business leader has used the - I never went bankrupt, by the way, as you know, everybody knows. But we - hundreds of companies, hundreds of deals, I've used.


No. I just will tell you that, you know, Jeb made the statement. I'm not only referring to him. I - a lot of money was raised by a lot of different people that are standing up here. And the donors, the special interests, the lobbyists have very strong power over these people.

I'm spending all of my money, I'm not spending - I'm not getting any - I turned down - I turn down so much, I could have right now from special interests and donors, I could have double and triple what he's got. I've turned it down. I turned down last week $5 million from somebody.

So I will tell you I understand the game, I've been on the other side all of my life. And they have a lot of control over our politicians. And I don't say that favorably, and I'm not sure if there's another system, but I say this. I am not accepting any money from anybody. Nobody has control of me other than the people of this country. I'm going to do the right thing.

(APPLAUSE)

So, number one, they have to respect you. He has absolutely no respect for President Obama. Zero.

Syria's a mess. You look at what's going on with ISIS in there, now think of this: we're fighting ISIS. ISIS wants to fight Syria. Why are we fighting ISIS in Syria? Let them fight each other and pick up the remnants.

I would talk to him. I would get along with him. I believe - and I may be wrong, in which case I'd probably have to take a different path, but I would get along with a lot of the world leaders that this country is not getting along with.

We don't get along with China. We don't get along with the heads of Mexico. We don't get along with anybody, and yet, at the same time, they rip us left and right. They take advantage of us economically and every other way. We get along with nobody.

I will get along - I think - with Putin, and I will get along with others, and we will have a much more stable - stable world.


(APPLAUSE)

I believe that I will get along - we will do - between that, Ukraine, all of the other problems, we won't have the kind of problems that our country has right now with Russia and many other nations. TAPPER: Senator Rubio, you've taken a very different approach to the - the question of Russia. You've called Vladimir Putin a, quote, "gangster."

Why would President Rubio's approach be more effective than President Trump's?

(APPLAUSE)

I wouldn't have drawn the line, but once he drew it, he had no choice but to go across. They do bear some responsibility, but I think he probably didn't do it, not for that reason.

Somehow, he just doesn't have courage. There is something missing from our president. Had he crossed the line and really gone in with force, done something to Assad - if he had gone in with tremendous force, you wouldn't have millions of people displaced all over the world.

...By the way, I agree with - with what Chris is saying, but, I will say this. Illegal immigration is costing us more than $200 billion dollars a year just to maintain what we have.

(APPLAUSE)

Well, first of all, the - the 14th Amendment says very, very clearly to a lot of great legal scholars - not television scholars, but legal scholars - that it is wrong. It can be corrected with an act of Congress, probably doesn't even need that.

A woman gets pregnant. She's nine months, she walks across the border, she has the baby in the United States, and we take care of the baby for 85 years. I don't think so.

And by the way, Mexico and almost every other country anywhere in the world doesn't have that. We're the only ones dumb enough, stupid enough to have it. And people - and by the way, this is not just with respect to Mexico. They are coming from Asia to have babies here, and all of a sudden, we have to take care of the babies for the life of the baby.

The 14th Amendment, it reads properly, you can go and - it's probably going to be have to be check - go through a process of court, probably ends up at the Supreme Court, but there are a lot of great legal scholars that say that is not correct.

And in my opinion, it makes absolutely no - we're the only - one of the only countries, we're going to take care of those babies for 70, 75, 80, 90 years? I don't think so.

(APPLAUSE)

- let me - well, let me just explain. The head of the Yale Business School, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, wrote a paper recently, one of the worst tenures for a CEO that he has ever seen, ranked one of the top 20 in the history of business. The company is a disaster and continues to be a disaster. They still haven't recovered. In fact, today, on the front page of the Wall Street Journal, they fired another 25 or 30,000 people saying we still haven't recovered from the catastrophe.

When Carly says the revenues went up, that's because she bought Compaq, it was a terrible deal, and it really led to the destruction of the company.

Now one other company before that was Lucent. Carly was at Lucent before that. And Lucent turned out to be a catastrophe also. So I only say this. She can't run any of my companies. That I can tell you.

I never filed for bankruptcy.

- I've made over $10 billion. I had a casino company - Caesars just filed for bankruptcy. Chris will tell you - it's not Chris' fault either - but almost everybody in Atlantic City is either in trouble or filed for - maybe I'll blame Chris.

Wait a minute, Carly. Wait. I let you speak. Atlantic City is a disaster, and I did great in Atlantic City. I knew when to get out. My timing was great. And I got a lot of credit for it.

Many of the great business people that you know - and Carl Icon (ph) is going to work with me on making great deals for this country. But whether it's Carl or so many others that we read about all the time -


Well, I think the thing about the flat tax, I know it very well. What I don't like is that if you make $200 million a year, you pay ten percent, you're paying very little relatively to somebody that's making $50,000 a year, and has to hire HR Block to do the - because it's so complicated.

One thing I'll say to Ben is that we've had a graduated tax system for many years, so it's not a socialistic thing. What I'd like to do, and I'll be putting in the plan in about two weeks, and I think people are going to like it, it's a major reduction in taxes. It's a major reduction for the middle class. The hedge fund guys won't like me as much as they like me right now. I know them all, but they'll pay more.

I know people that are making a tremendous amount of money and paying virtually no tax, and I think it's unfair.

Well, I heard Hugh Hewitt, a nice man, he apologized because he actually said that we had a misunderstanding. And he said today that Donald Trump is maybe the best interview there is anywhere that he has ever done.

(APPLAUSE)

Well, you have to understand, I am not sitting in the United States Senate with, by the way, the worst voting record there is today. Number one. I am not sitting in the United States Senate. I'm a businessman doing business transactions.


I am doing business transactions. I will know more about this - and, as you said, that was very acceptable, and when you listen to that whole interview, it's a great interview, you said it, I didn't. Well, now I did. But...

I'm meeting with people that are terrific people, but I have to say something because it's about judgment.

I am the only person on this dais - the only person - that fought very, very hard against us (ph), and I wasn't a sitting politician going into Iraq, because I said going into Iraq - that was in 2003, you can check it out, check out - I'll give you 25 different stories.

In fact, a delegation was sent to my office to see me because I was so vocal about it. I'm a very militaristic person, but you have to know when to use the military. I'm the only person up here that fought against going into Iraq.


Speaking for myself, I'm OK with it. I think there's a certain truth to it. I know people that, frankly, it has no impact on their life whatsoever. There are many people.

I would almost say leave it up to them, but I would be willing to check it off, and say I will not get Social Security. I do not...

BASH: What about the country as a - as a policy?

As a policy, I would almost leave it up to the people. Don't forget they pay in and they pay in, and maybe they do well, and maybe some people want it. But the fact is that there are people that truly don't need it, and there are many people that do need it very, very badly. And I would be willing to write mine off 100 percent.


If I become president, we will do something really special. We will make this country greater than ever before. We'll have more jobs. We'll have more of everything.

We were discussing disease, we were discussing all sorts of things tonight, many of which will just be words, it will just pass on. I don't want to say politicians, all talk, no action. But a lot of what we talked about is words and it will be forgotten very quickly.

If I'm president, many of the things that we discussed tonight will not be forgotten. We'll find solutions. And the world will respect us. They will respect us like never before. And it will be actually a friendlier world.

And I have to say, it is a great honor to be here tonight.

(APPLAUSE)

DONALD TRUMP: Thank you very much. I see these beautiful teleprompters. Believe me, I'm not using them. (Laughter.) You know I said if you run for president you should not be allowed to use teleprompters. Get these things out of here. (Laughter.)

I was watching Hillary making a speech and it was outside. And they were dead, dark, big. They weren't even like this. These are clears. I can almost see right through them, but - which really is disturbing. Is that disturbing to the audience, wouldn't you think? But hers, because it was outside, were black, and they were twice the size. I said what kind of a speech is that? That's not a speech.

Most importantly, I brought my Bible. (Cheers, applause.) Okay? And, you know, it's First Presbyterian Church, Jamaica. And this was written by my mother with my name, with - it was a long time ago - with my name, with my address, with everything. In case I lost it, somebody would return it.

You know, in the old days, if you lost something, they returned it; today a little bit less so. But I saw this and I said I have to bring it and just show it, because it brings back so many memories.

It's really an honor to be here. And, you know, David is a fantastic guy. He's done an amazing job. And we had some big news today with Boehner. (Cheers, applause.) And, you know, I've been saying for a long time - and I was just telling, actually, David, who said, by the way, I'm not a politician and I'm not politically correct. And I think that's a great thing. (Cheers, applause.)

I just am so tired. I'm so tired of the political - I love this guy over here. Thank you. I'm so tired of the time and the effort of all of this. We don't have time. We have a country that's in such danger and such trouble. To be politically correct, every word is measured. And I can do it. I went to great schools. I went to an Ivy League school. So easy to do it. But who wants to do it? We have to get to business. I mean, we have to just get back to business.

But we're going to have a very interesting period of time. And maybe it starts today, because Speaker Boehner - you know, some people like him on a personal basis. Do people like him on a personal basis? Anybody? (Laughter.) You know, we want to see - we want to see the job being done properly. We want to see - we want people that are going to get it done.

And I don't understand. They get elected. They're full of vim and vigor. They're going to change things. They're going to get rid of "Obamacare." They're going to do all of these things. They come down to these magnificent vaulted ceilings that you see all over Washington. And what happens? They become different people.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: That's right.

MR. TRUMP: They become different people. They come out and they don't do it. And I will say, you know, for the groups that want to take what they say is a harsh tone, I wrote "The Art of the Deal." And I will tell you, "The Art of the Deal," if they would have read it, some of - and I'm talking about the Republicans. We know where the Democrats are coming from. But we are so disappointed in the Republican establishment, because if they stuck together - in all fairness, you have a certain group of 10 percent, 12 percent of Republicans that are out there fighting, fighting. But when the other side, which is Obama and the Democrats, when they hear that they're not going to win and they have no support, there's no way - from "The Art of the Deal," there's no way that they can possibly win, that the Republicans can win.

So they're out there. They're left hanging so many different times. If they actually were unified, if they were brought together and unified - and you said four very important things that you're going to take very, very strong, harsh measures - you're going to win, because nobody's going to - in 50 years from now, in 100 years from now, in two years from now, and even next month, nobody's going to be talking about the speaker. Nobody's going to be talking about any of the - they're going to be saying let's say something very important. The government shut down. They're blaming the president, folks. They're blaming the president.

And, you know, it's sort of interesting. When you hear the Democrats, they're very, very good - very, very good. They go, oh, we want the government to shut down. We want it to shut down. That would be so great if it shut down. It would be so wonderful if it shut down. And the Republicans say, oh, they want it to shut down. Oh, that would be bad. We're playing right into their hands.

These people are babies. Do you remember when they said they want to impeach - do you remember - no, they're babies. They're babies. (Applause.) Do you remember when they said they wanted to impeach - a small group wanted to impeach Obama? Right? Remember? And then the Democrats said, no, no, we want him to be impeached. We want him to be impeached. Please impeach him. It would be so good for him. It will make him look so good. And he'll get all of his points out. It'll be wonderful. Do you really think they want him to be impeached? So the Republicans come back. I was just telling the folks backstage, the Republicans come back. Oh, we don't want to do that because he wants to be. Who wants to be impeached? (Laughter.) Oh, it's so sad.

I mean, you know, like, you have this clown, Marco Rubio. I've been so nice to him. (Chorus of boos.) I've been so nice. I've been so nice. And then - no, but he's in favor of immigration, and he has been. He has been. It was the gang of eight. And you remember the gang of eight. It was terrible. (Scattered applause.) And then he went down in the polls. And you have to stay. You know what? If you believe in something, you have to be true to yourself. You have to be. You have to be.

But it was the gang of eight and it was really, really - you talk about weak on immigration; nobody weaker. And all of a sudden he goes down in the polls and all of a sudden he starts changing his tone. But you never really change your tone. You remember that.

And also, when you're elected senator, you have to go and vote. It's so important. You can't say I can't vote. And he's got the worst record. And he hit me. And I said why is he doing that? And sometimes the Republicans do it more than anybody because they want to sort of catch on. They want to get into the publicity cycle. And all you're doing is hurting yourselves. I mean, it's a bad thing. All you're doing is hurting yourselves.

Now, we have so many people that can be and should be attacked. We have a president that is extremely bad for everything that the folks in this room stand for - I mean, extremely bad. (Cheers, applause.)

You know, freedom of religion - so important. We just don't see it. You know, you take a look at a thing like the Iran deal. We talk freedom of religion, look at the Iran - how long is this whole thing going to last when we have incompetent people - grossly incompetent people negotiating these vital deals like that deal where 24 days and all - I don't have to go over all of the many problems with the deal. Even Israel - Israel is in such trouble with this deal.

And you know in that deal probably it says - and nobody even understands what says, which is a problem - (laughter) - but probably if Israel ever attacked Iran, we're supposed to come to their defense. Do we know that? Nobody's able to tell us what is going on with respect to that. If Israel has to - because at some point something might happen. The deal is horrible. The deal is horrible, from any standpoint. And we have to do something. And I can say it's going to have to be renegotiated.

You know, I've made a living of buying bad - I love bad deals, because you buy them cheap, do you understand that? (Laughter.) You buy them cheap. (Applause.) I love horrible contracts. I love buying - I bought them from friends of mine. I buy a horrible, horrible contract. The poor guy is dying with it. He's getting killed. I buy it cheap. I then go and fight like hell and make it a great contract. Sometimes you chapter it, some - you do lots of different things, whatever you have to do. And you make it a great contract.

That contract, that agreement has to be changed. We have no choice, because if it isn't you're going to have nuclear proliferation - it's already happening. You're going to have potentially the destruction of Israel. It has to be changed. One of the things in that contract that I cannot believe, we're giving them $150 billion dollars. Right? (Laughter, applause.) No, we're giving them $150 billion dollars of which they're going to use, and already are using - they're ordering missiles from Russia. They're doing things that probably and definitely we can't allow them to do. But they're doing it.

We cannot allow the incompetence that we've had going on in this country. We just can't - we have to use our greatest negotiations. We have to use our smartest people. We use political hacks - they're all political hacks. They're negotiating deals that they should - they have no right doing it. Take a look at another thing - one thing - and, look, nuclear's so important, but you have four prisoners. One of them's over there because he's a Christian. He's over in jail because he's a Christian.

Now, at the beginning of the negotiation - by the way, it used to be three at the beginning, now it's four. But you say very simply before you start, fellas - and by the way I have to say, to the women, it's all fellas over there. They haven't figured out that women are smarter than men. They haven't figured this out yet. (Laughter, applause.) A little detail. They'll figure. It'll take another 150 years, but they'll figure it. (Laughter.) You say, fellas, you got to give us back our prisoners. You got to do it. You got to do it. No, you got to do it. (Cheers, applause.) You got to give us back our prisoners.

Now, they went to Kerry who is - you know, broke his leg playing - this guy's in a bicycle race, can you believe it? (Laughter.) He's in a bicycle race. He's got the hat. He's got the emblem. I said, what's he doing? He as actually in a race. It wasn't just like let's get a little exercise. Breaks his leg. This is our negotiator, all right? So he walks in - (laughter) - he walks in with crutches. And they say, what the hell is with this guy? Is he crazy? (Laughter.) We have to very simply - as an example, that example. You walk in at the beginning, not the end - not the end. You say, fellas, before we start, you have four prisoners. You don't want them. We do. It would send a great signal to the American people. It'll make the deal much easier. You'll make another deal. It'll make it much easier.

You got to give us back. If they say no, you take a walk because you know you're not going to get anything. You take a walk. (Cheers, applause.) You take a walk. And I guarantee you - I guarantee you, as sure as you're sitting there, that within a short period of time they call back, you have your prisoners - you have them. But here's the worst, it isn't even - and you need the right messenger. If I'm the messenger, you get those prisoners back. I tell you what - I tell you what - (cheers) - I'll make this statement. If I get elected president, before I ever get to office, I guarantee you they will be back - I guarantee 100 percent. (Cheers, applause.) A hundred - that's a hundred percent.

But you need the right messenger. And in the case of the prisoners, they never even asked. Can you believe it? They said, both Obama and Kerry said we didn't want to complicate the negotiations. (Jeers.) No, no, I mean, this was really a statement. We don't want to complicate. So it's time. I'm a business man. I made a tremendous amount of money - a tremendous amount. It's ridiculous. I mean, I don't even believe it myself. You want to know the truth? I don't even believe it. (Applause.) I'm self-funding - I don't want to have the lobbyists and the special interests put money into my campaign. (Cheers, applause.)

I'm turning down - by the way, I'm turning down millions of dollars. I've turned down millions and millions of dollars. I actually feel foolish because it's so anti-me. It' so, like, it's not me. (Laughter, applause.) But I turn down millions and millions. And yet - you know, I was in Iowa two weeks ago. And I had a great audience. We had a - we've had just such great people and great crowds. And I said to the people, do you mind if I take millions of dollars? I promise you I won't do anything for the people giving me the money? Do you mind? And they all stood up and they said no, no, no. It was really important. I didn't know it was going to be that important.

Anyway, I think self-funding's great. I'm the only one that's self-funding. Everyone else - believe me, whether it's Bush, who by the way, along with Rubio - but whether it's Bush or anybody in favor of common core. I mean, I think of it. Now, you talk from a Christian standpoint. You want local school representation. (Cheers, applause.) You want local. (Cheers, applause.) Common Core is a disaster.

But you people that really are tough and smart. You look at another thing, trade. That's what I'm - oh, I'm going to do so good. I always say I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. That I tell you. That I tell you. (Cheers, applause.) You know, people say - and actually, CNN did a poll and I come out so high on that, on the economy. And by the way, like much, much higher, not even close. I come out the highest by far on that. And leadership, I come out high on leadership. And I come out high on really other categories.

Then I say, if I'm so high in all these categories, why do we even have to have an election, right? (Laughter.) Why? Why? (Laughter.)

But a woman stood up - because I didn't sue - you know, the one thing I was a little weak on, people were not sure I was a nice person. And I am. I am. (Laughter.) I am. I am, I'm a giving person. (Applause.) I believe in God. I believe in the Bible. I'm a Christian. I'm - you know, I have a lot of reasons. I love - I love people. But the woman stood up. She said, Mr. Trump, I'm a big fan of yours and I'm going to vote for you, but I don't know if you're nice enough to get elected. I said, I really think I'm a nice person, but let me tell you something: I really think this is going to be an election based on competence.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah!

MR. TRUMP: We need now competence. And we have to have something. We - we need help.

We owe China $1.5 trillion. Think of it. They suck our money out, they take our jobs, they do everything, and we owe them money. How does that work? Not so good. (Laughter.) No, we owe them. Supposed to be the other way around, right?

Japan. We owe them the exact same amount, $1.5 trillion. They sell us cars, biggest boats you've ever seen coming into the harbors. You've never seen boats - I've never seen ships like this. They're loaded, loaded with cars. So they send millions of cars over here. We sell them beef - beef. They don't want it. Half the time they send it back. They want to send it back. The farmers over there don't want it. So we take it back. That's not good beef by the time you get it back. I said the other day - (laughter) - no, no, I say it's aged; now they call it Kobe beef and we sell it for more money, you know, it's one of the - (laughter).

But - but you look at the imbalance, the U.S. trade - I mean, look at - look at the U.S. trade. China, almost $400 billion a year we lose. Japan, $75 billion a year.

Mexico - they all say the fence. First of all, we are going to build a wall, and it's going to be a real wall, OK? (Cheers, applause.) If people like it or don't, we're going to build a wall. (Applause.) And it's going to have a big, beautiful door, and people are coming to come into the country, but they're going to come in legally. They're going to come into the country legally. (Cheers, applause.) And when people graduate number one in their class from Harvard and Yale, we don't send them out. And they want to stay in the country.

You know, there was a case the other day I read about where somebody - a great student at a great school - couldn't stay. From India, couldn't stay in the country, no matter what. And they forced him out. And he founded a company a few years ago in India - 5,000 employees, one of the most successful companies, an unbelievable job. We could have had him here, and we force them out. Silicon Valley needs people. We all need people. But we force these incredible people that have been in our system for years - we force them out. They graduate, boom, get out.

So we've got to be smart. We've got to be tough.

We can't allow our veterans to be treated the way they're treated. They're treated horribly. (Cheers, applause.) They're treated horribly.

And our military? If I win, we're going to make our military so big, so strong, so powerful nobody will ever mess with us, folks. We are really in serious trouble. You have - (cheers, applause) - you have Putin the other day, not so long ago, saying, you know, they better be careful, we have nuclear missiles. I've never heard - you know, coming from Russia. But you have North Korea, you have so many other places.

I brought up recently, you know, during the debate - anybody watch the debate, by any chance?

AUDIENCE: Yeah! (Applause.)

MR. TRUMP: How did I do? How did I do? (Cheers, applause.) Right? I won every single poll, and yet these media people, oh, Donald Trump didn't - I won every poll. I won Drudge. I love Drudge. I love Drudge. (Laughter, applause.) But I won Drudge. I won Time magazine. I won every single poll - Slate, places I never even heard of. I won every poll. (Laughter.)

Then I turn on the television and even - I think the Fox poll had me at second, and they - they wouldn't say it. They wouldn't tell. They wouldn't say I was in second. Other polls, they said I did great.

Then I'm listening to some of the pundits. I won't use their name, because actually some of them are getting better, you know, as I get higher and higher. We're doing great. In fact, with Evangelicals in Iowa - just came out - I'm number one at 29 (percent), substantially ahead of anyone else. I'm happy about that. (Cheers, applause.) You know why? That's the reason. (Laughter.) That's the reason. (Laughter, applause.)

But - but we have to be careful, as Christians. The progressives are pushing - the progressives are pushing to an extent that, if we're not careful, we're going to have some big problems, and even bigger than we have right now.

Look, we need people that can support us. We need people that are strong and smart and can back us. The word "Christmas" - I love Christmas. I love Christmas. You go to stores now, you don't see the word "Christmas." It says "Happy Holidays" all over. I say, where's Christmas? I tell my wife: don't go to those stores. I want to see Christmas. No, I want to see Christmas. (Cheers, applause.) And you know, other people can have their holidays, no. But Christmas is Christmas. I want to see "Merry Christmas."

Remember the expression "Merry Christmas"? You don't see it anymore. You're going to see it if I get elected, I can tell you right now. I can tell you right now. (Cheers, applause.)

So I just want to thank you for the - it's been an amazing group of people. You've been amazing. And to have such a fantastic room. But I just want to thank everybody. You know, I got into this and everyone said, there's no way he'll ever do it, he's got this wonderful company, he's got - I do. I have a wonderful life.

But I see what's happening. I see what's happening with the country. I see so many things going wrong, so many things that are caused really by incompetence, that can be straightened out. We can straighten it out fairly quickly. I will tell you if we don't stop it now, however, it's going to be - at some point it's going to be too late. You're not going to be able to turn it. You're not going to be able to turn it.

But I got in and they said, you know, he'll never do it. So I did it. They all said, oh, he did it. Then they'll say, he'll never file, like, form A, which is basically a single page where you're signing your life away. I signed it. I signed form A. They said, oh, I don't believe it. Then they said he'll never put in his financials because maybe he's not as big financially as everybody thinks. I put in my - almost a hundred pages, like the biggest ever filed by far, by far - (laughter) - and I had it ahead of - but you know, they said, oh, he'll ask for all the extensions. And you had some of the politicians asking for extensions and they were one page. (Laughter.) I put it in ahead of schedule, and it turned out the company was much bigger than anybody thought, much stronger. It was - it's an amazing company, right? So they said, this guy might be running.

Then I go with the polls, and the polls go up just like the Evangelicals in Iowa. The polls - I start, bing, bing, bing, bing. And every single two or three weeks, when the polls come out, they said, well, now he's reached his cap. I started at 6 (percent). It went to 9 (percent). It went to 12 (percent). It was like a rocket ship, right? You've seen it. I mean, I'm not telling you anything. (Laughter.) And - and it went to 20 (percent) and it went to 22 (percent). Then it went - and then the other day, in a Fox poll, it went up 2 (percent). And I'm killing everybody. And they say, other people are surging, Trump is staying still. But I'm up! I went up. I didn't stay still. I went up 2 points, right, a big two points. (Laughter.) And I had another one where I'm 33 (percent) - 33 (percent) - and the next one I think was like 12 (percent) or 15 (percent), and they don't want to report it. They don't put the poll out. I said, why aren't you putting the poll out? Well, we don't like that poll. This is a great poll. (Laughter.) It's a great poll. (Laughter.) And they wouldn't put it out.

So, you know, I get angry at these things, because you know what I like? I like fairness. Somebody said, do you have thin skin? I don't. If I'm wrong about something, I don't mind, the media can do whatever they want. But I have thin skin when I'm right about something when I know they're doing a number on all of us, because when I ran - and the reason I ran is because I want to make this country great again. And we're going to do it. (Cheers, applause.) We're going to do it. (Cheers, applause.) And we're going to do it a lot faster and a lot better than anybody thinks is possible. (Applause.)

And I just want to thank everybody. You're special people and I love you all. (Applause.) And this is the key. Thank you all. Thank you very much. Thank you. (Cheers, applause.) Thank you very much, everybody. (Cheers, applause.)



Should there be a database system that tracks Muslims of this country?
 
There should be a lot of systems, beyond databases. We should have a lot of systems. And today, you can do it. But right now we have to have a border, we have to have strength, we have to have a wall and we cannot let what's happening to this country happening
 
Is that something your White House would like to do?
 
I would certainly implement that. Absolutely.



DICKERSON: Paul Ryan's name is mentioned as a possible speaker. What do you think of Paul Ryan?

TRUMP: Well, I think he's somebody that probably -- that could get good support. I think he's a very nice person. I think he doesn't want it very badly. But you never know. Maybe he's playing one of the great games of all time.

It's speaker of the House. I mean, it is a great position, but he doesn't seem to want it. But I will bet you that, if it was actually offered to him, he would take it.

DICKERSON: You said you want somebody strong. Is Paul Ryan strong?

TRUMP: I think he's strong. I disagree with some of the things.

I think that when Mitt Romney chose him last time, it was a tough choice, because he's been so anti-Medicare/Medicaid/Social Security in a sense. Now, he would say he hasn't been, but they certainly played that apart. And that was a disastrous campaign for a lot of reasons.

But Paul Ryan is a good man. I know him very little, but I think he's a very good person.

DICKERSON: So you would be OK with Speaker Paul Ryan?

TRUMP: I would be OK. I would be OK. It may not be him. They have a couple of people in there. I'm not going to mention names, but people I know that are really tough and really smart. And right now, that's what we need, because the Republicans never win.

John, they never win. Everything, whether it's on Obamacare, whether it's on the debt ceiling, whether -- no matter what we have, there's never, ever a victory. So we need a toughness that we just don't have there right now.

DICKERSON: You said that Republicans should do -- and I'm quoting from you here -- "something really, really significant" with the coming debt ceiling vote. That's the vote on whether the United States government can keep borrowing money.

What can Republicans do?

TRUMP: Well, John, if you go back and check, I have been saying this for three years. All right? That's a tremendously powerful weapon, if they knew how to use it. The problem is, you will have 70 percent of the Republicans saying, we're not closing government. Now, when you say that -- you know, I wrote "The Art of the Deal." When you say that, and the other side says, well, we got 70 percent of the people say it's not going to happen, the other 30 percent are -- essentially, they're rendered useless. It's really very unfair to them, because they're left out there hanging.

So you need somebody that can unify, can be tough and can win against the Democrats and against others, I mean, in all fairness, against the world, essentially. But they really do have a tremendously powerful weapon, but they don't use it and they don't use it properly. They're terrible negotiators.

DICKERSON: John Boehner, after he announced that he was resigning, said that there were false prophets in the Republican Party.

And I'm quoting. He said: "These false prophets are whipping people into a frenzy believing they can accomplish things that they know are never going to happen."

He's kind of talking about you.

TRUMP: I don't think so. But, first of all, I know. I like him on a personal basis. But I do think they should be tougher.

But here's the problem. When he says false prophets, you cannot win when you have a group of 25 or 30 percent on this side, and you have a group of 70 percent on this side saying, we're never going along with the 30 percenters who want more. That's what is happening.

And every time I watch it, I say, it's so sad, because if they were really unified and they took that 30 percent stance, assuming they wanted to really make changes and do it right, and cut the budget, cut the deficit, do things that they should be doing, if they took that group, and if everybody was unified, Obama would fold.

But there's no reason for him to ever fold, because he knows that a big proportion, a vast majority of the Republicans are on his side.

DICKERSON: I want to ask you about your view on the use of military power. You say, in personal relations, you're a counterpuncher. You don't hit until you are hit.

Is that a good way to think about the way you would use military force as a president?

TRUMP: I'm the most military-based and the most militaristic person on your show. I want to have a much stronger military. I want it to be so strong that nobody is going to mess with us.

I want to take care of our vets, who are treated terribly, like third-class citizens. We have illegal immigrants that are being treated better than our great vets. They're like third-class citizens. They're going to be taken care of. But we have to make our military strong and hopefully never have to use it.

DICKERSON: Well, let's take an example of some case where you may or may not use military force. It turns out Assad apparently used chemical weapons on his own people. Does President Trump use force or not in that case?

TRUMP: Well, you know, the time to have done it would have been when he drew the line in the sand.

DICKERSON: So, you would have done it in that case?

TRUMP: When I'm president -- I might have gone in. Yes, I think it's terrible. When you start using that, I think it's terrible.

Now it's such a mess over there, with everybody involved, and the airspace is very limited. It's not that big of an area. The airspace is very limited. So, now you have -- what, are we going to start World War III over Syria?

DICKERSON: Where you are on the question of a safe zone or a no- fly zone in Syria?

TRUMP: I love a safe zone for people. I do not like the migration. I do not like the people coming.

Frankly, look, Europe is going to have to handle -- but they're going to have riots in Germany. What's happening in Germany, I always thought Merkel was like this great leader. What she's done in Germany is insane. It is insane. They're having all sorts of attacks.


DICKERSON: You mean in letting in the refugees?

TRUMP: Letting in that many people.

What they should do is, the countries should all get together, including the Gulf states, who have nothing but money, they should all get together and they should take a big swathe of land in Syria and they do do a safe zone for people, so that they could have a safe -- where they could to live, and then ultimately go back to their country, go back to where they came from.

DICKERSON: Does the U.S. get involved in making that safe zone?

TRUMP: I would help them economically, even though we owe $19 trillion.

What I won't do is take in 200,000 Syrians who could be ISIS. John, I have been watching this migration. And I see the people. I mean, they're men. They're mostly men, and they're strong men. These are physically young, strong men. They look like prime-time soldiers.

Now, it's probably not true, but where are the women? You see some women. You see some children. But for the most part, I'm looking at these strong men. So, you ask two things. Number one, why aren't they fighting for their country? And, number two, I don't want these people coming over here.

And even on a humanitarian -- when I was first asked this question -- you asked it to me a long time ago -- when they were talking about 3,000 people, I begrudgingly would say, oh, maybe, I don't know. Maybe.

DICKERSON: Letting them into the United States.

TRUMP: A little bit. Then they said 10,000, I'm not thrilled, but maybe.

Two hundred thousand people? This could be the greatest Trojan horse. This could make the Trojan horse look like peanuts if these people turned out to be a lot of ISIS.

DICKERSON: Peggy Noonan writes that you and Vladimir Putin are showing strength. Do you have similarities with Vladimir Putin?

TRUMP: Well, I like her. I can tell you that. I think Peggy Noonan is fantastic, and she's been writing some nice things. Every once in a while, she will hit me, but that's OK. But I think she's fantastic.

No, I think the biggest thing we have is that we were on "60 Minutes" together, and we had fantastic ratings, one of your best rated shows in a long time. So, that was good, right? So, we were stable mates.

I think that we are very different. I think that I would at the same time get along very well with him. He does not like Obama at all. He doesn't respect Obama at all. And I'm sure that Obama doesn't like him very much.

But I think that I would probably get along with him very well, and I don't think you would be having the kind of problems that you're having right now. And as far as him attacking ISIS, I'm all for it. If he wants to be bombing the hell out of ISIS, which he's starting to do, if he wants to be bombing ISIS, let him bomb them, John. Let him bomb them.

DICKERSON: You have a concealed weapons permit.

TRUMP: Yes.

DICKERSON: When did you get it?

TRUMP: Years ago.

DICKERSON: Why?

TRUMP: Because I like to have myself protected.

DICKERSON: Do you carry on a...

TRUMP: Sometimes.

DICKERSON: Would you advise -- in the context of current gun violence, would you advise people to get that?

TRUMP: Well, I'm a big Second Amendment person, big, as you probably know.

Like, I'm coming out with a book in another three or four weeks called "Crippled America," tough words, "Crippled America." I talk a lot about the Second Amendment in the book.

Had they had -- as an example, for the horrible thing that just took place, OK, horrible, in Oregon, had they -- had somebody in that room had a gun, the result would have been better.

DICKERSON: So, should people get armed the way you are?

TRUMP: Well, that's up to them.

But I will tell you, I feel much better be armed.

DICKERSON: What about teachers?

TRUMP: I think that if you had the teacher, assuming they knew how use a weapon, which hopefully they would, you would have been a lot better when this maniac walked into class starting to shoot people.

DICKERSON: You love polls. You're at the head...

TRUMP: I don't love them. I only like them when I'm the number one.

By the way, if I wasn't number one, I wouldn't never mention it.

DICKERSON: You love polls at the moment.

Our latest CBS poll has you in the lead, and it also shows that two-thirds of registered voters, eight in 10 Republicans say you have the strong qualities of leadership. But here's the problem.

TRUMP: That's a very big statement.

DICKERSON: That's a big statement.

Here's another big statement; 60 percent of registered voters say you're not honest and trustworthy. That number has gone up since the last poll.

TRUMP: It's better than Hillary.

DICKERSON: If they think you're a leader, does it matter if they trust you?

TRUMP: I think the leadership is very important.

I think they know I'm a very smart guy. I think they know I'm going to fight for the country. I don't need any money. I'm all self-funding. I don't need money. I have turned down millions, tens of millions of dollars from rich lobbyists and rich special interests that want to give me $5 million, $10 million, $2 million.

I could have more money than Bush times 15. Now, I actually do have more money than Bush times -- but it's my own money. I'm spending my own money and people respect it. Now, I think I'm leading every poll. I'm leading every poll by a lot.

The leadership thing is very important. People are not -- I think, right now, what people want is they want competence. They're tired of other things.



DICKERSON: And trust doesn't matter?

TRUMP: I think trust is very important. In my opinion, it is very important.

And I happen to be an honorable guy. But one thing that is very important, when I go to New Hampshire and Iowa and South Carolina, where I have very good numbers in terms of favorability, you know why? Because I'm there a lot. I go there a lot

And, as you know -- in fact, you reported it -- I went up 60 points in terms of favorability. Somebody said it was a record. That's because when people get to know me, they get to like me.

DICKERSON: But you have been on center stage for three months. You have been around in center stage for a while.



TRUMP: I know, but, locally, those have been the states that I really have spent a lot of time in.

DICKERSON: But, again, on favorability in our poll, only 28 percent of voters overall -- and this is -- we're talking about a general election here -- in our poll have a favorable opinion of you.

TRUMP: But I win hands down on leadership. Right? By far. It's not even close, double and triple anybody else. That's very important to people now. They wanted leadership. They're tired of having weak and incompetent leaders, John.

DICKERSON: What will you do with the empire if you're made president? Will you cut all ties or...

TRUMP: Well, what I would do -- I would cut all ties.

Look, this is all beautiful. I built a great business. I have a tremendous, you saw it, over $600 million yearly cash flow and stuff. Look, I would cut -- I wouldn't care about it. My kids will run it. I wouldn't want to expand very much. It wouldn't matter to me.

I have a chance at making America great again. That's the whole focus. So, my children would run my business, and my executives. I have great executives. And they would do it well. They would run it well.

And I'm phasing out as we go along. When I do these interviews, all of a sudden, they take a lot of time. But I have wonderful children that are in business and I have wonderful executives. They would run it. I would not even think about this business. It would be so insignificant to me, compared to making our country great again.

DICKERSON: All right, Mr. Trump, thanks very much.

TRUMP: Thank you very much, John.

DICKERSON: Paul Ryan's name is mentioned as a possible speaker. What do you think of Paul Ryan?

TRUMP: Well, I think he's somebody that probably -- that could get good support. I think he's a very nice person. I think he doesn't want it very badly. But you never know. Maybe he's playing one of the great games of all time.

It's speaker of the House. I mean, it is a great position, but he doesn't seem to want it. But I will bet you that, if it was actually offered to him, he would take it.

DICKERSON: You said you want somebody strong. Is Paul Ryan strong?

TRUMP: I think he's strong. I disagree with some of the things.

I think that when Mitt Romney chose him last time, it was a tough choice, because he's been so anti-Medicare/Medicaid/Social Security in a sense. Now, he would say he hasn't been, but they certainly played that apart. And that was a disastrous campaign for a lot of reasons.

But Paul Ryan is a good man. I know him very little, but I think he's a very good person.

DICKERSON: So you would be OK with Speaker Paul Ryan?

TRUMP: I would be OK. I would be OK. It may not be him. They have a couple of people in there. I'm not going to mention names, but people I know that are really tough and really smart. And right now, that's what we need, because the Republicans never win.

John, they never win. Everything, whether it's on Obamacare, whether it's on the debt ceiling, whether -- no matter what we have, there's never, ever a victory. So we need a toughness that we just don't have there right now.

DICKERSON: You said that Republicans should do -- and I'm quoting from you here -- "something really, really significant" with the coming debt ceiling vote. That's the vote on whether the United States government can keep borrowing money.

What can Republicans do?

TRUMP: Well, John, if you go back and check, I have been saying this for three years. All right? That's a tremendously powerful weapon, if they knew how to use it. The problem is, you will have 70 percent of the Republicans saying, we're not closing government. Now, when you say that -- you know, I wrote "The Art of the Deal." When you say that, and the other side says, well, we got 70 percent of the people say it's not going to happen, the other 30 percent are -- essentially, they're rendered useless. It's really very unfair to them, because they're left out there hanging.

So you need somebody that can unify, can be tough and can win against the Democrats and against others, I mean, in all fairness, against the world, essentially. But they really do have a tremendously powerful weapon, but they don't use it and they don't use it properly. They're terrible negotiators.

DICKERSON: John Boehner, after he announced that he was resigning, said that there were false prophets in the Republican Party.

And I'm quoting. He said: "These false prophets are whipping people into a frenzy believing they can accomplish things that they know are never going to happen."

He's kind of talking about you.

TRUMP: I don't think so. But, first of all, I know. I like him on a personal basis. But I do think they should be tougher.

But here's the problem. When he says false prophets, you cannot win when you have a group of 25 or 30 percent on this side, and you have a group of 70 percent on this side saying, we're never going along with the 30 percenters who want more. That's what is happening.

And every time I watch it, I say, it's so sad, because if they were really unified and they took that 30 percent stance, assuming they wanted to really make changes and do it right, and cut the budget, cut the deficit, do things that they should be doing, if they took that group, and if everybody was unified, Obama would fold.

But there's no reason for him to ever fold, because he knows that a big proportion, a vast majority of the Republicans are on his side.

DICKERSON: I want to ask you about your view on the use of military power. You say, in personal relations, you're a counterpuncher. You don't hit until you are hit.

Is that a good way to think about the way you would use military force as a president?

TRUMP: I'm the most military-based and the most militaristic person on your show. I want to have a much stronger military. I want it to be so strong that nobody is going to mess with us.

I want to take care of our vets, who are treated terribly, like third-class citizens. We have illegal immigrants that are being treated better than our great vets. They're like third-class citizens. They're going to be taken care of. But we have to make our military strong and hopefully never have to use it.

DICKERSON: Well, let's take an example of some case where you may or may not use military force. It turns out Assad apparently used chemical weapons on his own people. Does President Trump use force or not in that case?

TRUMP: Well, you know, the time to have done it would have been when he drew the line in the sand.

DICKERSON: So, you would have done it in that case?

TRUMP: When I'm president -- I might have gone in. Yes, I think it's terrible. When you start using that, I think it's terrible.

Now it's such a mess over there, with everybody involved, and the airspace is very limited. It's not that big of an area. The airspace is very limited. So, now you have -- what, are we going to start World War III over Syria?

DICKERSON: Where you are on the question of a safe zone or a no- fly zone in Syria?

TRUMP: I love a safe zone for people. I do not like the migration. I do not like the people coming.

Frankly, look, Europe is going to have to handle -- but they're going to have riots in Germany. What's happening in Germany, I always thought Merkel was like this great leader. What she's done in Germany is insane. It is insane. They're having all sorts of attacks.



DICKERSON: You mean in letting in the refugees?

TRUMP: Letting in that many people.

What they should do is, the countries should all get together, including the Gulf states, who have nothing but money, they should all get together and they should take a big swathe of land in Syria and they do do a safe zone for people, so that they could have a safe -- where they could to live, and then ultimately go back to their country, go back to where they came from.

DICKERSON: Does the U.S. get involved in making that safe zone?

TRUMP: I would help them economically, even though we owe $19 trillion.

What I won't do is take in 200,000 Syrians who could be ISIS. John, I have been watching this migration. And I see the people. I mean, they're men. They're mostly men, and they're strong men. These are physically young, strong men. They look like prime-time soldiers.

Now, it's probably not true, but where are the women? You see some women. You see some children. But for the most part, I'm looking at these strong men. So, you ask two things. Number one, why aren't they fighting for their country? And, number two, I don't want these people coming over here.

And even on a humanitarian -- when I was first asked this question -- you asked it to me a long time ago -- when they were talking about 3,000 people, I begrudgingly would say, oh, maybe, I don't know. Maybe.

DICKERSON: Letting them into the United States.

TRUMP: A little bit. Then they said 10,000, I'm not thrilled, but maybe.

Two hundred thousand people? This could be the greatest Trojan horse. This could make the Trojan horse look like peanuts if these people turned out to be a lot of ISIS.

DICKERSON: Peggy Noonan writes that you and Vladimir Putin are showing strength. Do you have similarities with Vladimir Putin?

TRUMP: Well, I like her. I can tell you that. I think Peggy Noonan is fantastic, and she's been writing some nice things. Every once in a while, she will hit me, but that's OK. But I think she's fantastic.

No, I think the biggest thing we have is that we were on "60 Minutes" together, and we had fantastic ratings, one of your best rated shows in a long time. So, that was good, right? So, we were stable mates.

I think that we are very different. I think that I would at the same time get along very well with him. He does not like Obama at all. He doesn't respect Obama at all. And I'm sure that Obama doesn't like him very much.

But I think that I would probably get along with him very well, and I don't think you would be having the kind of problems that you're having right now. And as far as him attacking ISIS, I'm all for it. If he wants to be bombing the hell out of ISIS, which he's starting to do, if he wants to be bombing ISIS, let him bomb them, John. Let him bomb them.

DICKERSON: You have a concealed weapons permit.

TRUMP: Yes.

DICKERSON: When did you get it?

TRUMP: Years ago.

DICKERSON: Why?

TRUMP: Because I like to have myself protected.

DICKERSON: Do you carry on a...

TRUMP: Sometimes.

DICKERSON: Would you advise -- in the context of current gun violence, would you advise people to get that?

TRUMP: Well, I'm a big Second Amendment person, big, as you probably know.

Like, I'm coming out with a book in another three or four weeks called "Crippled America," tough words, "Crippled America." I talk a lot about the Second Amendment in the book.

Had they had -- as an example, for the horrible thing that just took place, OK, horrible, in Oregon, had they -- had somebody in that room had a gun, the result would have been better.

DICKERSON: So, should people get armed the way you are?

TRUMP: Well, that's up to them.

But I will tell you, I feel much better be armed.

DICKERSON: What about teachers?

TRUMP: I think that if you had the teacher, assuming they knew how use a weapon, which hopefully they would, you would have been a lot better when this maniac walked into class starting to shoot people.

DICKERSON: You love polls. You're at the head...

TRUMP: I don't love them. I only like them when I'm the number one.

By the way, if I wasn't number one, I wouldn't never mention it.

DICKERSON: You love polls at the moment.

Our latest CBS poll has you in the lead, and it also shows that two-thirds of registered voters, eight in 10 Republicans say you have the strong qualities of leadership. But here's the problem.

TRUMP: That's a very big statement.

DICKERSON: That's a big statement.

Here's another big statement; 60 percent of registered voters say you're not honest and trustworthy. That number has gone up since the last poll.

TRUMP: It's better than Hillary.

DICKERSON: If they think you're a leader, does it matter if they trust you?

TRUMP: I think the leadership is very important.

I think they know I'm a very smart guy. I think they know I'm going to fight for the country. I don't need any money. I'm all self-funding. I don't need money. I have turned down millions, tens of millions of dollars from rich lobbyists and rich special interests that want to give me $5 million, $10 million, $2 million.

I could have more money than Bush times 15. Now, I actually do have more money than Bush times -- but it's my own money. I'm spending my own money and people respect it. Now, I think I'm leading every poll. I'm leading every poll by a lot.

The leadership thing is very important. People are not -- I think, right now, what people want is they want competence. They're tired of other things.



DICKERSON: And trust doesn't matter?

TRUMP: I think trust is very important. In my opinion, it is very important.

And I happen to be an honorable guy. But one thing that is very important, when I go to New Hampshire and Iowa and South Carolina, where I have very good numbers in terms of favorability, you know why? Because I'm there a lot. I go there a lot

And, as you know -- in fact, you reported it -- I went up 60 points in terms of favorability. Somebody said it was a record. That's because when people get to know me, they get to like me.

DICKERSON: But you have been on center stage for three months. You have been around in center stage for a while.



TRUMP: I know, but, locally, those have been the states that I really have spent a lot of time in.

DICKERSON: But, again, on favorability in our poll, only 28 percent of voters overall -- and this is -- we're talking about a general election here -- in our poll have a favorable opinion of you.

TRUMP: But I win hands down on leadership. Right? By far. It's not even close, double and triple anybody else. That's very important to people now. They wanted leadership. They're tired of having weak and incompetent leaders, John.

DICKERSON: What will you do with the empire if you're made president? Will you cut all ties or...

TRUMP: Well, what I would do -- I would cut all ties.

Look, this is all beautiful. I built a great business. I have a tremendous, you saw it, over $600 million yearly cash flow and stuff. Look, I would cut -- I wouldn't care about it. My kids will run it. I wouldn't want to expand very much. It wouldn't matter to me.

I have a chance at making America great again. That's the whole focus. So, my children would run my business, and my executives. I have great executives. And they would do it well. They would run it well.

And I'm phasing out as we go along. When I do these interviews, all of a sudden, they take a lot of time. But I have wonderful children that are in business and I have wonderful executives. They would run it. I would not even think about this business. It would be so insignificant to me, compared to making our country great again.

DICKERSON: All right, Mr. Trump, thanks very much.

TRUMP: Thank you very much, John.



Let me just tell you that you're living in a world of the make believe, Chris, if you want to know the truth.  

WALLACE:  Today round 2.  

Do you blame George W. Bush for 9/11?

Are you a little thin-skinned?  

We go in depth with Donald Trump on "Fox News Sunday" for the first time as a candidate.  

Then, Hillary Clinton faces her moment of truth with the Benghazi committee after she declares her first debate a success.  

HILLARY CLINTON, D-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Thanks to each and every one of you, we're going to win!  

WALLACE:  We'll ask our Sunday panel what she ask expect from a much less receptive audience on Capitol Hill.

And our power player for the week.

INA GARTEN, BAREFOOT CONTESSA:  When you cook, everybody shows up.  

WALLACE:  The Barefoot Contessa, all right now on "Fox News Sunday."



WALLACE:  And hello again from Fox News in Washington.  

Well, it took a while, but Donald Trump finally agreed to an interview on "Fox News Sunday." I had asked him some tough questions in the big Fox debate, which he didn't like, and he made that very clear.  Now two months later, he sat down for an in-depth interview this weekend at the Trump National Golf Club outside of Washington.  

We discussed the issues, his latest dustup over with Jeb Bush over 9/11, and why he fires back at reporters like me.  

It was vintage Trump.  



WALLACE:  Mr. Trump, good to see you again.

TRUMP:  Thank you.

WALLACE:  It becomes almost a cliche in this political cycle that people are fed up with politicians, but back when you announced in June, most of the so-called experts, including me, thought you had no chance and that people would end up voting for somebody with political experience.

How did you know that discontent, frustration with the system, would be the prevailing mood in 2015?

TRUMP:  I felt it.  I mean, I felt it from within.  

We have tremendous discontent in the country.  We have tremendous problems in the country.  And I felt it early on or I wouldn't have done this.  

But I see tremendous discontent.

WALLACE:  Before we dig down into some issues, I want to see how much of a disruptor you would be.  And let's do a lightning rod of quick questions --

TRUMP:  OK.

WALLACE:  -- quick answers.

Would you be willing to use a debt limit and risk the possibility of the country going into default to get more spending cuts?

TRUMP:  OK, I would use the debt limit.  I don't want to say -- I want to be unpredictable, because, you know, we need unpredictability.  Everything is so predictable with our country.

But I would be very, very strong on the debt limit.  And I would see asking for a very big pound of flesh if I were the Republicans.

And the problem with the Republicans, they have two sides.  The smaller side was very strong and the other side is always agreeing and, you know, you can't do that.

WALLACE:  Would you be willing to shut down the government in order to defend Planned Parenthood or to put some other key policy goals?

TRUMP:  I do not want to say that because I want to show unpredictability.  You have to.  You can't just go around and say that.

But Planned Parenthood should absolutely be defunded.  I mean if you look at what's going on with that, it's terrible.  And many of the things should be defunded and many things should be cut.

WALLACE:  You said in August that you're, quote, "fine" with affirmative action.

What about conservatives who say the time for that kind of preferential treatment has come and gone.

TRUMP:  I'm fine with it, but we have it, it's there.  But it's coming to a time when maybe we don't need it.  That would be a wonderful thing.  I don't think we need it so much anymore.  

You know, it has served its place, and it served its time.  Some people have loved it and some people don't like it at all.

But I think there will be a time when you don't need it.

WALLACE:  You are one of the few candidates who have come out with a detailed tax plan.  Let's drill down into that.

You would cut the seven tax brackets to four.

TRUMP:  Correct.

WALLACE:  Zero, 10 percent, 20 percent, 25 percent.  You'd cut the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 15 percent.  You would limit deductions for higher income earners and you would eliminate carried interest, preferential tax treatment for hedge funders.

What's the thinking?

TRUMP:  Well, the thinking is we have the highest tax rate in the world.  In the entire world, we have the highest tax rates.  We have $2.5 trillion overseas that isn't coming back into this country.  We can't get it back in, which tells you, by the way, something else.

Our politicians, Republicans and Democrats, they all agree that money should come back in.  There's gridlock in Washington because there's no leadership.

So what I'm doing is -- is large tax cuts, especially for the middle class.  And they're going to -- we're going to have a dynamic country.  We're going to have dynamic economics.  And it's going to be something really special and people are going back to work.

WALLACE:  But there are two concerns.  The Conservative Tax Foundation, Conservative Tax Foundation, says that over 10 years, you would create -- you would add $10 trillion to the deficit.  And there's also the question of who would benefit under your tax plan.

The Tax Foundation says the middle class would see after tax income increase 7.2 percent.  The top 1 percent would see a spike of 21.6 percent.  So between that and ending the estate tax, the Trump family and folks like you would make out great.

TRUMP:  The estate tax has been a disaster.

First of all, it's double taxation.  Some people could even say it's triple taxation.  

WALLACE:  But how about the idea that you're going to blow a hole in the deficit and that the top 1 percent is going to make out a lot better --  

TRUMP:  Well, they're going to make out better if the economy gets better.  The economy is very sick.  We're losing our jobs to China, to Japan, to every country with -- we're making horrible trade deals.  

We are losing jobs in this country hundreds and hundreds of thousands of jobs are being lost.

And part of the reason is our taxes are so high in this country.

I'm also cutting.  You know, they don't talk about that, and I'm doing that in a different little policy segments that were going to be announcing in three weeks.

WALLACE:  Cutting spending.

TRUMP:  But we're cutting -- we're going to be cutting tremendous amounts of -- of money and waste and fraud and abuse.  You know, they had a case --  

WALLACE:  Would you cut serve -- would you cut departments?

TRUMP:  No, I'm not cutting services, but I'm cutting spending.  But I may cut Department of Education.  I believe Common Core is a very bad thing.  I believe that we should be no -- you know, educating our children from Iowa, from New Hampshire, from South Carolina, from California, from New York.  I think that it should be local education.

If you look at a Jeb Bush and some of these others, they want them to be educated by -- by Washington, D.C. bureaucrats.  So the Department of Education is one.

Environmental Protection, what they do is a disgrace.  Every week they come out with new regulations.  They're making it impossible --  

WALLACE:  Who's going to protect the environment?

TRUMP:  They -- we'll be fine with the environment.  We can leave a little bit, but you can't destroy businesses.  

WALLACE:  You brought up trade.  You would end NAFTA.  You would kill the Pacific Trade Agreement.  You would impose tariffs on some products like 35 on Ford cars made in Mexico.  

"The Wall Street Journal" says that you are running as, quote, "the most anti-trade candidate since Herbert Hoover."

TRUMP:  OK, so here's the deal.  First of all, "The Wall Street Journal" was bought for $5 billion.  It's now worth $500 million, OK.  They don't have to tell me what to do.  

"The Wall Street Journal" has been wrong so many different times about so many different things.

I am all for free trade, but it's got to be fair.  When Ford moves their massive plants to Mexico, we get nothing.  We lose all of these jobs.

What do we get out of it?  I don't want them to move their plant --  

WALLACE:  But I want to pick up on that because --  

TRUMP:  No, the -- the point is, I don't want them to move their plants.  I want them to stay in Michigan.  I want them to stay in all of the places where they are, or expanded to other places.  But I want it to be in the United States.  

I don't want them to go to Mexico.  I don't want them to go to China.  

WALLACE:  But this brings up the point, the conservative American Enterprise Institute says, look, Donald Trump, he owns a dozen hotels, properties, all over the world.  Your Trump Collection clothing line, some of it is made in Mexico --  

TRUMP:  It's true.

WALLACE:  -- and China.

TRUMP:  That's true.  I want it to be made here.

WALLACE:  I know.  But the point they say is you're doing just what Ford is, you're taking --  

TRUMP:  Sure.

WALLACE:  -- advantage of a global trading market.

TRUMP:  I never dispute that.  I put it in my speeches.  I say it -- the ties are made in China and different things.  I don't want that.

I just ordered 4,000 television sets.  You know where they come from?  South Korea.  

And yet, we defend South Korea for practically nothing.  We have 28,000 soldiers.  They're making a fortune.  

I don't want to order them from South Korea.  I don't think anybody makes television sets in the United States anymore.  I don't want to order from South Korea.  I want to order from here.  I talk about it all the time.  We don't make anything anymore.

Now you look at Boeing.  Boeing's going over to China.  They're going to build a massive plant because China's demanding it in order to order airplanes from Boeing.  

So Boeing now is going to China, building a massive plant.  I don't want that.  I don't want that.

WALLACE:  You say that eminent domain is wonderful, and you --  

TRUMP:  First of all, I say eminent domain is something you need.  Eminent domain -- if I build a highway --  



TRUMP:  I know exactly what you're saying.  But if I build a highway, and if something's in the way of the highway, you're going to have to do something with that.

WALLACE:  I understand that.  And that's the idea of using -- taking private property for a public use.  But --  

TRUMP:  And, by the way, people get paid for it.  Everyone thinks they don't get paid.  They get paid a lot of money.

WALLACE:  I understand.  But in the Kilo case, the big Supreme Court case in 2005, they took somebody's home and they sold it and then paid -- bought it.  And then they gave it -- sold it -- to private entrepreneurs, private developers.  And that's the question --  

TRUMP:  That's different.

WALLACE:  But that's the question I'm going to ask you --  

TRUMP:  But that's different.

WALLACE:  Do you support taking private property for private use?

TRUMP:  If somebody has a property in the middle of a 7,000 job factory, as an example, that's going to move into the town -- but they need this one corner of this property, and it's going to provide 7,000 jobs in a community that's dying, of which we have many in this country, OK?  I am for that.  That's a big economic development.  

But remember this: all of these people that we're talking about, they're friends of mine.  They all love the Keystone Pipeline, right?

The Keystone Pipeline is all eminent domain.  They're building their pipeline without eminent domain.  You wouldn't be able to build.

WALLACE:  But let me ask you since you were involved in a case like this, as you know, in the 90s --  

TRUMP:  That's true.  That was an economic development.

WALLACE:  -- in Atlantic City.

TRUMP:  Sure.

WALLACE:  You had your hotels, and you wanted to build a parking lot where some woman had her house --  

TRUMP:  She saved me a fortune.  

WALLACE:  I guess the question is, why do you need to take her house for a parking lot?

TRUMP:  I tell you what.  Because I have a hotel, and in order to expand the hotel and add 2,000 rooms, I would have had to take her thing.  

Now, the 2,000 rooms would have provided about 2,500 jobs.  Ultimately offered a lot of money, she didn't take it, I didn't build the job.  I didn't do it.  Saved me a lot of money because Atlantic City, you know, I had the good sense to leave 7 years ago.  I got very lucky.  

Yes, I think that would have been a good eminent domain because you would have provided thousands of jobs.  And this is a woman who couldn't have cared less about her house.  All she wanted was money.

WALLACE:  Something you said on Friday has stirred up some controversy about George W. Bush and the Twin Towers.  



TRUMP:  When you talk about George Bush, say what you want, the World Trade Center came down during his time.  If you look --

INTERVIEWER:  Hold on, you can't blame George Bush for that.  

TRUMP:  He was president, OK?  Don't blame him or don't blame him, but he was president.  The World Trade Center came down during his reign.



WALLACE:  Jeb Bush responded to your comments with a tweet.  He said, "How pathetic."

Question: do you blame George W. Bush for 9/11?

TRUMP:  Look, look, Jeb said we were safe with my brother.  We were safe.  Well, the World Trade Center just fell down.  

Now, am I trying to blame him?  I'm not blaming anybody.  But the World Trade Center came down.  So when he said, we were safe, that's not safe.  We lost 3,000 people, it was one of the greatest -- probably the greatest catastrophe ever in this country if you think about it, right?

WALLACE:  What would you have done?  

TRUMP:  Well, I would have been much different, I must tell you.  Somebody said, well, it wouldn't have been any different.  Well, it would have been.  

I am extremely, extremely tough on illegal immigration.  I'm extremely tough on people coming into this country.  I believe that if I were running things, I doubt those families would have -- I doubt that those people would have been in the country.  

So there's a good chance that those people would not have been in our country.

With that being said, I'm not blaming George Bush.  But I don't want Jeb Bush to say my brother kept us safe because September 11th was one of the worst days in the history of this country.



WALLACE:  There's much more to come of our interview with Donald Trump.  We asked him about where he stands in the polls, the shots he takes at politicians and reporters, and if he's the Republican nominee, how he will take on Hillary Clinton.  You don't want to miss it.  

But, first, our Sunday group on Hillary Clinton's testimony this week before the House Benghazi Committee.  



WALLACE: You are still leading. Why do you think your numbers have gone down a bit?

TRUMP: I don't think they've gone down. I think they've gone up. We just had a Reuters poll come out. I'm at 33. We just had, as you know, Nevada come out. I'm 20 points ahead of second place. We had one come out in South Carolina where I'm 18 or 20 points ahead. The polls have been now better than they've ever been. And what you're doing is a little bit obsolete information.

But that's OK. Look, I'm leading in everything.

WALLACE: Late this week, you forced, I think it's fair to say - you and Ben Carson - forced CNBC to change the ground rules for their debate. And Carly Fiorina went after you and Carson. She said, first of all, what are they scared about, standing up for three hours? And then she said this.



FIORINA:  They also apparently asked for prepared statements.  You know, prepared statements are what politicians do.  So honestly, here are two outsiders supposedly, Donald Trump and Ben Carson, they sound a lot like politicians tonight to me.



TRUMP: First of all, she's going nowhere. You talk about dropping in the polls, she's dropped like a rock. I could stand there for 12 hours. I could stand there for 20 hours. But the people can't take it. Who wants to watch a debate for three hours? I couldn't watch Hillary for an hour-and-a-half. And when I heard it was a three-hour debate that was only done to make more money for the company, for the network, I said I'm not going to participate because I thought the CNN debate was ridiculous. It was too long and people were turning off - who's going to watch a debate that long?

It used to be one hour when it started. It used to also get no ratings. And both CNN and Fox broke the all-time record on cable television. So I wonder why. Do you have any idea why?

WALLACE: I think - maybe it was because of the moderators.

TRUMP: I think so.

(LAUGHTER)

TRUMP: I do think so. Great moderators.

WALLACE: Which brings me to the question of temperament, which I think you would agree is important --

TRUMP: I think it's very important.  

WALLACE: -- in a president. First of all, what's the deal with the tweets? Why are you sitting there at night watching TV and tweeting out?

TRUMP: Well, I think it's fine. It's a great way of getting my word out. I love Twitter and tweeting, and I have - between that and Facebook, I have like 10 million followers. It's a great way. You know, now if you do something bad to me, I can tweet about Chris. And the world will be singing (ph).

WALLACE: And you have.

TRUMP: No, and you know what? Truthfully, it's an amazing way of getting the word out.

WALLACE: But does Mrs. Trump ever say, "Donald, turn off the TV? Come to bed."?

TRUMP: Oh, I don't do that much. And usually it's not too late. No, I just think it's an amazing way - you know, we're in a modern age now. We have to get with it. Twitter and Facebook and all of this stuff is, to me, I mean, for some reason - I'm probably not the youngest person using it. But for some reason, it works very well. I'm setting records.

In fact, for the debate, you know - I'm talking about the Democrat debate - and they use Democratic. It's really Democrat. You know that, OK? They called that wrong. It's really the Democrat. But the Democrat debate, I picked up more followers by many times than anybody else. And there were those that said I won the debate because I picked up all the followers.

But no, I think it's a great, modern way of getting the word out.

WALLACE: During the campaign, you have called Marco Rubio a puppet, Jeb Bush low energy, Rand Paul a lightweight. And just this week, you called Bernie Sanders a maniac.

TRUMP: And a communist.

(LAUGHTER)

WALLACE: And a communist. Do you think that's presidential --

TRUMP: Yes.

WALLACE: Is that the way you would act in the White House?

TRUMP: I'm running against a lot of people. And they come out and attack me, very viciously, very viciously. I mean, Perry, I thought he was a nice guy. He was always a friend of mine. He had won campaign contributions. He was always very nice. All of a sudden, boom, I hit him very hard. I hit Rand Paul very hard. Look what happened then. I'm a counterpuncher. I don't have a choice. If you look what they say about me, it's terrible. I mean, they say terrible things about me. Bobby Jindal - you talk about lightweights, this guy is a real lightweight. And he hit me - I don't even know this man - and he hit me because - and they're not hitting me on fact. They're hitting me in order to try to pick up something in their polls.

The thing I'm most honored about is every single person that went after me, including Jeb Bush, who's down - boom. Every single person that went after me has gone way down. And I'm very honored by that. And that's what the country needs. The country needs a leader that when the country gets hit, we're going to come out on top, not keep going down. Because we're going down. Our country is going down.

WALLACE: Then I want to bring up the subject - hear me out - of you and me. During the debate, I asked you a question about bankruptcy.

TRUMP: Right.

WALLACE: And you - I thought gave a fine answer.



TRUMP:  First of all, these lenders aren't babies.  These are total killers, you know, I mean, you're living in the world of the make-believe, Chris.  You want to know the truth.



TRUMP: I thought it was my best answer.

WALLACE: Then, for about a week, you go after me. You say blood's pouring out of my eyes, you compare me unfavorably to my father. And I agree - he's one of a kind.

Here's the question: You're running for president. I mean, we talked to Chris Christie about Bridgegate. We talked to Carly Fiorina about --

TRUMP:  Destroying the company.

WALLACE:  -- about (INAUDIBLE).

TRUMP:  She destroyed her company.

WALLACE:  OK. So I guess the question is...

TRUMP:  No, it's not personal.

WALLACE:  -- are you a little thin-skinned?

TRUMP:  No, I'm only thin-skinned when somebody says bad things that are false.  For instance, if you hit me about something that's true, all right, the bankruptcy -- I used that as a tool.  I didn't ever file for bankruptcy.  Out of hundreds and hundreds of...



TRUMP:  -- four times -- I've used it four times.  But...

WALLACE:  But it was just a question.

TRUMP:  No, no, I know, but the way it was phrased, the way it was phrased.  I could see the eyes, OK.



WALLACE:  -- like I don't even know blood coming out of my eyes?

TRUMP:  I used it as a tool brilliantly.  

And it was phrased incorrectly in my opinion, the question.  And you wouldn't have asked these people about bankruptcy, but you asked me about it.  And I've used it brilliantly...

WALLACE:  I asked Carly Fiorina about Hewlett Packard.

TRUMP:  And I -- well, that's easy.  She destroyed the company, OK.  That one is an easy one.  

I am not thin-skinned when something is truthful.  If I did something wrong and you said I did something -- I can handle that, and if the press is bad, I -- it's when people hit me when I didn't do anything wrong.  You know, it's like then -- then it's not a question of thin-skinned, I will fight back.

WALLACE:  You say my father covered you in a much fairer manner.  So I decided to go back and look at your first profile on "60 Minutes." He talked a lot about your successes, but he also talked about the fact that you were in a controversy then. The allegation was that you were trying to throw middle-class people out of the rent-controlled building so you could create condos for rich people.

Here's a clip.



WALLACE:  They call you arrogant and cruel, those tenants over there.  Does that get under your skin?

TRUMP:  No, because you see, I think I'm right, and when I think I'm right, nothing bothers me.



WALLACE:  First of all...

TRUMP:  I've been doing this for a long time.

(LAUGHTER)

WALLACE:  First of all, whatever happened to that nice soft-spoken young man?

TRUMP:  I know.  I know.  I know.  

WALLACE:  But was that a fair question for him to ask you?

TRUMP:  I thought it was fair, because it was very controversial at the time and I thought it was fair.  

WALLACE:  Not to press my luck, but true or false, you, at one point, considered and tried to put homeless people in some of those apartments to force the tenants to move out.

TRUMP:  No, I talked about doing it, and I talked about doing it as a charity.  That's right.  We have a thing called...

WALLACE:  A charity?

TRUMP:  No, I was thinking about doing that, and, you know, I would have done that and it would have been nice and it would have been charitable.

You have wealthy people living and paying like $200 rent on Fifth Avenue or Central Park South, I think it's unfair, and it's been proven to be unfair.

WALLACE:  Finally, Hillary Clinton testifies before the House Benghazi Committee this week.

What is it you would like to find out about both her role in Benghazi and about her e-mails?

TRUMP: I think things will be revealed.  Personally, I think that Hillary was one of the worst, if not the worst, I mean if you look at the record, secretary of States ever, ever in this country.  I think that's the bigger problem that she's got.

I don't think Benghazi is as big a problem for her as her past and what's happened.

The world blew up around her.  You look at the world, it just blew up around her.  Everything went bad, whether it's Libya, whether it's her tenure in Iraq.  And there's been plenty of bad tenures having to do with Iraq because of the length.

Things that happened during her tenure were a disaster.  I think she's...

WALLACE:  (INAUDIBLE).

TRUMP:  -- probably going to go down as the worst secretary of state in the history of this country.  And I think that will be -- what I will tell you, that will be what I will be campaigning on.

Now, what's going to happen with Benghazi? It will be very interesting.  I look forward to it.

WALLACE: If you end up as the Republican nominee and she's the Democratic nominee, how would you take her on?

TRUMP:  I'd take her on tough.  I'd just take her on on her record.  I'd discuss her record.  I think her record is abysmal.  And I would take her on on her record.

WALLACE:  Mr. Trump...

TRUMP:  Thank you very much.

Thank you, Chris.

A great honor.



WALLACE:  Up next, our Sunday group reacts to the interview with Donald Trump, and we'll discuss President Obama's bit shift, announcing he'll keep U.S. troops in Afghanistan beyond his time in the White House.  

Plus, what do you think?  Did Mr. Obama make the right decision in Afghanistan?  Should he have sent in more troops?  Or pulled them all out?  Let me know on Facebook or Twitter, @foxnewssunday, and use the hashtag fns.





TRUMP:  I'm not blaming George Bush, but I don't want Jeb Bush to say my brother kept us safe, because September 11 was one of the worst days in the history of this country.  



ANNOUNCER: Tonight, the Republican candidates in back-to-back debates, in a campaign jolted by the attacks in San Bernadino and Paris.

TRUMP: ISIS has raised its ugly head again.

ANNOUNCER: Donald Trump. Still on top, going to new lengths to show he'd be tough on terror.

TRUMP: A total and complete shutdown of muslims entering the United States. We have no choice.


This is absolutely unbelievable. Thank you everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you.

So this began as 500 people in a ballroom in Phoenix. And the hotel called us up and they said, "Please don't do it here. We're going to be swamped. It's going to destroy the building. It's been amazing."

And outside, sadly, we have thousands of people that can't get in. So you know real estate. You know real estate.

I want to thank everybody. You know, last night - and a lot of you saw it on television - it was actually carried live - we had an amazing event and a very sad event. And yet, very beautiful. Because the word is getting out that we have to stop illegal immigration. We have to. We have to.

We have a situation that's absolutely out of control.
We have incompetent politicians, not only the President.

I mean, right here in your own state, you have John McCain. I just hate to see when people don't have common sense, don't have an understanding of what's going on, or perhaps don't want to know. Maybe it's campaign contributions. Maybe it's special interest. Maybe it's lobbyists. But for some reason, some people don't get it and I don't think they'll be in office much longer. I really mean that.

We are going to make this country so great again. We are going to work so hard.

And I will say this: When we had our event last night, I saw hardened veteran reporters who were crying. You had to see this. People that I've known for a long time that I don't even like - they're not good people. How are you doing back there?

And one in particular, tears are streaming down his face and I'm saying - I don't believe what I'm seeing. I didn't think he had a tear in him.

And some of the people that spoke were absolutely amazing.

One, their child was killed by an illegal immigrant, shouldn't have been here.

And this began for me - it's very interesting because when I started and when I announced - don't forget, everybody said, "He's never going to run." Right?

Then they said very strongly - you know, these are very knowledgeable people; they don't know anything. Then they said, "He'll never file his FEC paper." I filed that two weeks ago. They said, "Oh, wow."

Then they said, "He'll never file his financials because he's not as rich as people think." And they get filed during this week. And by the way, some of the other candidates will not be filing from what I hear. Okay?

And when they filed, the number is actually much higher than anybody ever knew. And I'm not saying that to brag. I'm only saying that because that is the kind of thinking our country needs.


We need thinking where trade deals with China, with Japan, with India, with everybody. We're getting ripped. We're being taken apart piece by piece, slowly. Slowly.

China laughs at us. They laugh at our stupidity. They laugh at our incompetent politicians. They have geniuses negotiating for them. We have people who don't have a clue; they don't have a clue.

Mexico - and by the way. Officially - and I've only said this about 200 times but it never gets reported. I love the Mexican people. I love the spirit of the Mexican people. I love them.

Many, many people from Mexico - legal. They went in the old fashioned way. They're legal.

Many, many people from Mexico work for me. And over the years, thousands of people - Hispanics - have worked for me. And many, many work for me now by thousands. They're incredible people.

By the way, nobody ever says that. Nobody ever says that. They always cut that out.

And I'll go a step further. I respect Mexico greatly as a country. But the problem we have is that their leaders are much smarter, sharper, and more cunning than our leaders, and they're killing us at the border and they're killing us in trade. They're killing us.

And every once in a while I'll see a rally and it's put up by the Mexican government in my opinion. People come in. They're so perfect. They're like central casting. And you know how long the rallies last? Like about 12 minutes. They go home.

But when you do - I've said this often. It's very, very hard for a very successful person - and I've heard it from the time I was a little boy - to run for President or even political office. And I find it and I have headlines everyday. "ESPN drops Trump".

A friend of mine in Paris called. "Oh Don, it's too bad about ESPN." You know what they were doing? They rented my golf club for a day. They put up a big deposit. I took their deposit. And then I rented it to somebody else. I made two for the price of one. No, it's true.

Then the next day all over the world, "NASCAR drops Trump." NASCAR. NASCAR. And then friends of mine call up from Europe. Headlines - NASCAR. "Don, it's too bad about NASCAR. I feel so - " You know what that one was? They rented a banquet hall at Trump National Doral in Miami for one evening. I took their deposit - I took their deposit. And you know what? I just rented it for much more money than they were paying. So it's two for the price of one.

You know, I may make money running for President. It's very interesting.

Then all over the place, I hear Macy's. Now, Macy's hurts because the head of Macy's I thought was a great friend of mine - Terry Lundgren. Nice guy. He called me up, and I'm in New Hampshire and I'm getting ready to go on to make a speech.

Sort of interesting. It's like 6:30 in the evening, and I get a call from Terry Lundgren of Macy's.

And the speech is packed. It was a house. It was supposed to be in the house. They didn't have enough room. They had 300, 400 people and they never thought this was going to happen. They thought there were going to be 30 like this. This is a little larger but the same thing proportionally.

So my phone rings - my cell phone, and it's Terry Lundgren of Macy's. And the man on stage is getting ready to introduce me. And he said, "And you know, we have Donald Trump - the American dream" and blah, blah, blah, blah - everything. And my phone rings during the introduction. I'm going to be going up there like in a minute.

And he goes - "Donald, hi." He's like my best friend. I said, "Terry, what's your problem?" He said, "You're very controversial." He said - and I'm supposed to be going up. I'm supposed to make a speech. I got all these people.

And by the way, cameras - just like all these cameras - you have all these cameras - we're on live television all over the place like we are now.

And he said, "Donald, I had calls from Hispanic people saying they're going to boycott Macy's. I don't know what to do."

I said, "Terry, be tough. They'll be gone. One day, one day."

Now, this is a man I played golf with. I'm with him all the time. I mean, really was, was, was - you understand - because I don't forget things...

He said to me, "Please, please, Donald. Can I cut you?"

It's not a big deal. I'm selling ties. And honestly, you know what? They were made in China so I didn't care that much. I was like screw it.

So I'm walking up the stairs to make a speech and I have Lundgren saying "I'd like to cut you" because he's going to get some bad publicity, he thinks.

And I walked upstairs and he said, "And now the American dream - ". And I'm still talking to Lundgren, and it's like a minute and a half before I walk on stage. People said, "What happened?" And I made a good speech. No notes. No nothing. And everybody was happy. And I just got cut from Macy's.

And here's the bottom line on Macy's. Thousands and thousands of people are cutting up their Macy's credit card. Thousands.

Then I get a call from NBC. Now, let me tell you about NBC. No, no, I got to tell you. Hey, look, I love the people at NBC. We had a tremendous success with The Apprentice. And they renewed The Apprentice.

See? I give up a lot. You're going to see how much money I made with The Apprentice come Wednesday or Thursday when I do my filing. Seriously. It's a very lucrative - you know, it's great when you have a big television show. It's like, you know, you're a movie star; you get a lot of money. Right? Not that much but a lot. But you're going to see very impressive numbers.

So NBC calls me - "We'd like to see you."

Now, they don't care about inclusion. They were talking about inclusion. You know, they write their press release. So, I read this and I say, "This is incredible".
But they called me and a couple of months ago the head of NBC comes to see me. And the head of NBC's boss - I don't want to mention names because they're really good people. They're friends of mine although I'll probably never speak to them again either.

And you know, the head of NBC's boss - that's Comcast because they own NBC.

So I get a call - the head of reality for NBC, the head president of NBC, and the head of everything - the head of Comcast. And they come to see me a number of months ago, "Please do The Apprentice. Please." They won't deny it. They won't deny it.

I said, "I can't. I want to make America great again."

I've done The Apprentice now for 12 years and it's a great show. For 12 years. There have 14 or 15 copies of The Apprentice. Every one have failed. Every single one. I mean, I could give you names but I don't want to embarrass people.

Nah, give you a couple of names.

No, nice people. Mark Cuban did one called The Benefactor. It was a disaster. Richard Branson did one. Great guy but it didn't work out. Tommy Hilfiger, who I love. A tenant in my building. Great guy. Didn't work out. Hiltons did one.

Martha Stewart did one for us. Did one for Mark Burnett and Donald Trump. Martha Stewart. She'd just got out of the can. No, it's true. She's hot as a pistol. You know, they showed her coming out. You know, she's got the whole thing with the whole outfit that she's wearing. The whole thing. I said, "What a great idea."

So we actually did The Apprentice done by us. It wasn't even a copy. It was called The Apprentice. Within a couple of shows it was over. It was over.

So I must have something, right? I must have.

So here's the story. NBC sees this. I mean, they're smart people. So NBC comes to my office and they want me to do The Apprentice so badly. And what do I do? I said, "I can't. I'm going to run for President."

And I said, "Because of equal time - " Now, you know what equal time. Such a stupid law. Obama can go on television all day long and be President and run for office. But if I have a television show, what happens is everybody running for office would have to be able to do The Apprentice. Equal time.

So you'll have a good guy named Rick Santorum. You'll have all these guys.

You'll have somebody who used to head up Lehman Brothers - the governor from Ohio. Headed up Lehman Brothers. Lehman Brothers almost took down the world. He was a managing partner. I think he's a nice man. I don't know. But I know if you're the managing partner of Lehman Brothers, Lehman Brothers almost - you're not looking too good. You know.

But all of these guys, they would have to be given two hours in primetime television on Monday or Sunday night. I don't think so.

So they came to my office and they said, "We'd like you to do it. So important."

And by the way, they renewed The Apprentice. It was really very interesting because a lot of people said, "Well, how could - " at the upfront, they announced The Apprentice, which is good because I always want to be loved, you know?

Like when I went on dates, if a woman dropped me - which happened often - I would always like to say or at least in my own mind that I dropped her. Does that make sense? So what happened - makes me feel better.

So they renewed The Apprentice and I said I'm not going to do it because I'm going to run for President. They didn't believe me.

I said, "Why won't you believe me?"

"Why would you give up a primetime show?"

Mark Burnett calls from - a great guy. Survivor, Apprentice. Great guy. He really is a wonderful guy and a friend of mine. He calls me, he goes, "Donald, they're giving you an extension. Nobody turns down an extension." He said, "I've never heard of it before."

I said, "Mark, I'm going to run for President." Nobody believed me.

Then I run. And the guys, they're in my office and they said "Run and then by September, we'll do something." Do you believe that? Do you believe that?

And I said, well if I don't do well, I would have done that. You know, why not? You know, if I'm not doing well, if it's obvious I'm - there's a problem. We just went to number one in the polls.

So, NBC went nuts. They renewed their show and they don't have their star and everybody else failed with similar shows. And they're angry at me.

So again, don't believe the inclusion. They've got Rev. Al Sharpton working for them. Okay? He's actually not a bad guy. He's a con man. You'd have to understand it. Rev. Al is a con man. You know, tells people "I'm going to picket you if you don't give." I mean, this guy is a con man.

But I've known him for 20 years. He's fine. You've got to understand who you're dealing with.

They've got lying Brian Williams. He's okay.
They sent me the most beautiful present a couple of months ago. Hundreds of - I shouldn't say the name because I deal with all of them - but in this case, Titleist. They sent me hundreds and hundreds of Titleist golf balls. Top of the line. They sent them to me...Card - "From your friends at NBC". A short time later, they say "He's not inclusive" - me.

I'm more inclusive than anybody. More inclusive than anybody.

I then get a call. Univision. Now, Univision controls and by the way, believe me. Univision has a certain power. Now, I didn't know much about Univision. I thought they were very wealthy. They're actually not wealthy at all. They're highly over-levered. They've got like, I think, $10 billion in debt. They have to do an IPO.

Now, how stupid is this? They could have waited a couple of weeks, done their IPO, and be done. Instead, they do it early. They couldn't do it fast enough because you know why?

In my opinion, it's only my opinion, the Mexican government totally tells Univision - it's about 80% of their market - totally tells Univision what to do. Totally.

So the Mexican government is not happy with me, to put it mildly.

But again, I respect Mexico but their leaders are too smart for our leaders because we have stupid leaders. Okay?

And I'll tell you, just between you - just between this little bit of a group - thank you very much...

So the Mexican government does not care about the border nearly as much as they care about the bad trade deals that the United States is making with Mexico. That's really what it's all about. That's really what it's all about.

So, I just sued Univision for $500 million.
With all of that being said, we have to be strong. We have to take our country back. We have to run the country properly.
So, I'm going to bring up a man who's a great man. He's a great, great guy. I saw him the other day on television.
Don't worry. It's okay. You can shout. I wonder if the Mexican government sent them over here; I think so. Because I'm telling you, I tell about the bad deals that this country is making. Mexico - I respect the country. They're taking our jobs. They're taking our manufacturing. They're taking our money. They're taking everything, and they're killing us on the border. And Mexico does not like it.
So remember this. Don't worry. We'll take our country back very soon. Very soon.
So the other day, you know it's funny, I got a great review for a speech, including my opening speech when I announced I'm running for President.
It wasn't until five days later that people started saying, "Oh he said something -"
What they don't say is they cut it in the middle of the sentence. They cut it. Because those people - many of them - not all, some are great - but many of them are very dishonest people, meaning the press. Very dishonest. Very dishonest.
I'll give you one quick example because I want to bring somebody up for a second who's fantastic. But I'll give you one quick example.
I say - and it's fairly standards because I believe it strongly - "The American dream is dead but I'm going to make it bigger and stronger and better than ever before." Right? Right?
So and I say it usually once during a speech, every once in a while. You know, I don't use teleprompters like the President and I speak from the heart.
So I say "The American dream is dead but I'm going to make it" - it's standard - "bigger, better, and stronger."
Okay, so now I go home and my wife says to me, "Darling, that was such a tough statement."
What? I turned on the television. "The American dream is dead." Period. Cut. I said, "Oh, what a horrible statement."
They are so dishonest. They are so dishonest.

You know, what I usually do because if you really love this country, you have a very, very hard convincing people what you're doing is right and that you're really smart.

And like a lot of us are really smart. I'm like really smart. Went to the Wharton School of Finance. Even then a long time ago, like the hardest or one of the hardest schools to get into. Did well at the school. Came out, made a fortune. Wrote a book called "The Art of the Deal".
Did everybody read "The Art of the Deal"? They say the number one selling business book of all time, which I agree, but I'll say one of them because if I'm slightly off by two copies, they'll say "Oh, Trump exaggerated."
...Wrote many bestsellers. Many. I think 12.
So I did a lot of things. But "The Art of the Deal" was like the number one selling business book of all time. Great.
Then I do The Apprentice, became this tremendous hit. NBC was desperate to have it. Forget it. Now, they can put somebody else that lasts.
Okay. So ready? And then I hear like "Donald Trump doesn't deserve to be on the same stage with some failed Senators, failed governor" or something. It's sort of amazing, isn't it? Isn't it amazing?

And the poll just came out and I'm tied with Jeb Bush. And I said, "Oh that's too bad. How can I be tied with this guy? He's terrible!"
He's weak on immigration. You know, the sanctuary cities. Did you know that he had five of them in Florida while he was governor? Can believe this? I didn't know that - I just - five of them.
He's totally in favor of Common Core, meaning your children in Phoenix and other places are going to be educated by bureaucrats from Washington, who for the most part just want to pick up a check. Give me break. And he's in favor.
I don't see him as a factor and I know it's the Bush name, which you know has gotten us into lots of wars. I mean, in all fairness, not the greatest. But Jeb Bush - I don't get it.
So when they said, "Mr. Trump, you're in first place." "Oh that's good." "You're tied with Jeb Bush." I said, "That's not good. How can I be tied with this guy?"
But I'll tell you what, I'm going to bring up a man to just a few words. His son was viciously and violently shot by an illegal immigrant. His son was a star athlete, a star student. He applied to Stanford and many great colleges. He would have been - he could have gone anywhere.
And I met Jamiel on television about a week ago. I see this guy. He's mentioning my name. I said, "Oh no, not again" because I figured he's killing me like everybody else. Right?
My wife said, "No, I think he's saying some really good things." I said, "I doubt it." You know, they're hitting me left, right.
I said, "I doubt it." But I turned it up and he said, "The only man that's sticking up for us is Donald Trump."
This guy is great, and we were at the news conference with his mother and his sister yesterday and it was one of the most incredible things.So I'd like to introduce to speak a little bit about his son and how incredible his son was and how his son should be here with us. I mean, his son should be alive and he should be in one of the great colleges and he should be maybe someday in the NFL. But he won't be because an illegal immigrant shot him violently.
And this guy is the best guy. He's become my friend. He's been with me for a few days. And just say a few words about your boy.

Thank you. Just - my name is Jamiel Shaw. My son was named Jamiel Shaw, II. He was shot dead in the street by an illegal alien or should I say someone in the country illegal.
And he was a good kid. I'm sorry. He was a good kid. He was a good kid.
He was - we thought we did a good job. You know, when he was five-years-old, I started training him to get him ready. My goal was to get him ready for the ninth grade, which was high school. And we know high school football is big time. You know you have to really start early. We were doing the pop warner. We were doing everything.
And I was on his case 24/7. I was one of those hands-on dads like my dad was. He was hands-on. You know, he was hands-on and the belt on.
You know, I respected my father. I was scared of him more than I was scared of the police. So I made sure I could do nothing wrong.
And I wanted my son to be the same way. I didn't want to have to spank him. I want him to do what I say because it's the right thing to do and he want to make it in life.
So we trained, we trained. We got to high school and he just really. It was unbelievable. I was starting to getting scared. It's too good to be true. You know, he was three time MVP. He was in the eleventh grade. All three years MVP. Player of the Year. All City.
I'm sure people here know what I'm talking about with their kids went through that kind of stuff. You know the hard work and the sacrifices that the kids have to do. And the parents - you know, my weekends was his. You know, I had to go and take care of everything.
So one Sunday we went to Pasadena at a training clinic for Division I prospects. So he was like wow. He was like, "Man, dad, we did it."
So to make a long story short, on our way home, he asked me if he could go to the mall and of course I didn't want to. But you know, "All right, man. What time are you going to be home?" He said - I said, "Well, be home by 7 p.m." It was like 3 p.m., you know, still early.

He went to the mall. I called him up about 7 p.m. He wasn't home. "Hey, where are you?"
"Hey, we're coming home from the mall. We missed the bus. You know, we're safe, dad. We're safe."
Because he knew that's all I was - I said, "Make sure to call me. I would have came and got you."
So I started calling him an hour, calling him an hour. I said, "Where are you?"
He said, "Right around the corner, old man." You know, that's what he called me.
And I was like, whew. I felt really good inside. I thought, "Whew, he made it home."
You know, I live in LA. You know, so, he had a little brother - eight-years-old. He got his clothes on. We were getting ready to go get some track spikes. He had a track meet that Friday. This was Sunday night.
So you know, a couple of minutes later, gunshots. I mean, really loud, really crispy. So I knew. Oh my God, it was outside my house.
Called his cell phone. Didn't answer. Man, I knew. I went outside and looked down the street. There he was laying on the street dead.
You know, I couldn't believe it.
Even right now when I say it, you know, I don't believe it.
You know, he was laying there with his eyes closed towards the house. Looked like he was sleeping. Looked like he was sleeping. But his body - I've never seen a dead body before - and his body was obvious. He was dead.
And I remember, you know, it's hard situation to go through.
After all that, I found that the guy who killed him was illegally in the country. Come on. You know, that's - I thought somebody black did it...Found out that the guy was on his third gun charge.
Now, you have somebody illegally in the country on their third gun charge. He'd been arrested three times already. He's in jail again.
Assault with deadly weapon. Battery on a peace officer. They gave him eight months in the county jail. Eight months. Let him out four months early.
Now, this was 18th Street gang member in the gang database. He's been arrested twice for gun charges, stabbed people, put schools on lockdown. Just really violent, you know. And these were the ones that Obama said they wanted - the violent ones, the gang bangers, the ones with guns.
He was released on a Saturday night without any supervision. Sunday night he was in my neighborhood. My son coming home from the mall. You know, he went to my neighbor's house. That's why he was in my neighborhood.
To make a long story short, he went to my neighbor's house, knocked on the door; he wasn't home. On the way back to his car saw my son coming. Ran right over there. He was on the phone with his girlfriend when he heard the guy ask - well, my son was telling his girl, "Oh, something is going wrong. This ain't right. What should I -" You know that kind of stuff. And she was like "Run, run!"
And then he killed him. Shot him in the stomach. You know, one of the neighbors saw it. Shot him in the stomach with a .45. So you can imagine. A .45, a 17-year-old kid, shot him in the stomach. While he was one the ground, pointed to the corner, he had his hands up like this and he shot him through his hands.
They thought he had three - they thought he had three gun shots because his hand was really badly damaged, a bullet wound in his stomach, and one in his head.
The coroner said he was on his back, went like this, and he shot him through his hands into his head.
Now, we hear all the time "Michael Brown. Hands up, don't shoot." Now, that was really hands up, don't shoot. I'm sure he wasn't saying anything because he just had a bullet wound in his stomach.
But if you could imagine your child - I tell people all the time when they protest or they protest Mr. Trump, what you have to do is so soul-search. Put yourself in my shoes. Think about your child laying on the street dead. Your mother, your wife, your father, anybody. We're not designed for that, you know?  Then to find out someone illegally in the country did it.
So when I found out - you know, I'm going to move on to Donald Trump. When I found out Donald Trump was running for office, I watched him because everybody likes Donald Trump. If it had nothing to do with the presidency, you want to see what he's got to say.
So I looked. I saw what he was saying and he was talking about saving the country.
People, my friends were calling me. Liberal friends calling me, "Turn the TV on. Donald Trump is talking about helping America."
You know, I turned it on and I saw it. When I saw it, I was so happy. For the first time in seven years, I feel hope, real hope. You know, I felt real change. You know?
And one thing Donald Trump showed me when he came out aggressive like he did at that, he can weather a storm. You know? We need somebody who can weather a storm. No one else, no one else can lose that kind of money and still be able to do what they've got to do. You know what I mean?
You know, I tell people all the time: The only difference between me and Donald Trump is that he doesn't care what's going on because he had the resources.
I don't care. I don't have nothing. I have nothing to lose. You know what I mean?
And you know, we really got to get him in here. He loves America. You know, I would tell you, I'm serious, if Donald Trump wasn't a real deal, I wouldn't have come around him because, you know, my son was murdered, so I don't trust nobody.
You know, I mean, I think everybody, you know, if you're not against illegal immigration, you're my enemy. I can't help that. That's how I feel. My son was murdered. You have to understand that.
You have to understand - what would you expect from your government? What would you expect from a politician that's running for office? What would you expect if your son was dead, your daughter, your mother? What would you expect from him? You would expect for him to go out there and fight for us.
Who do we have? You know, he's the only one - he's the only that's talking about saving our country.
All the Republicans - we were going to be bamboozled. Donald Trump exposed them all. Because they were all going to say, "We're going to save the border" and they did nothing. Now, they're after him. So what are they going to do for us? Nothing.
We have to trust Donald Trump the way you trust your mom, your dad, as you were growing up. You don't have to believe everything they believe. You don't have to do whatever they say. But you have to trust them. That's your mom, that's your dad. It's somebody you have to believe in.
Like I always say when people don't want to hear what I have to say, ask yourself what would you do if somebody killed your kids?
By the way, Jamiel's sister is here too and she told me the story that when Jamiel saw the boy, saw the boy laying on the sidewalk dead, this incredible young man with such a future, Jamiel laid down on the sidewalk and started pounding the sidewalk with his hand and badly damaged his hand. Badly, badly. He couldn't understand it. He couldn't believe it.
Just an amazing guy. I mean, just an amazing guy. And he wasn't being heard. He wasn't being heard.
And the only reason I heard him was because he was talking on a show and he was mentioning how badly they've all been treated.
And then you have in San Francisco, a beautiful young woman, Kate, and killed by somebody that just pleaded innocent. First pleaded guilty. Now he has a good lawyer and went into court and pleaded innocent.
And they'll be playing around with him for about 15 years in court and probably he'll get off too.
It's a horrible thing that's going on with our country.
And these are two people that should be alive. And these are people that shouldn't have been in this country. They flow in like water.
And I love legal immigration. I love it. I love it. I think it's great. My wife is a legal immigrant. I mean, she went through a whole long process. It's not easy, and we should maybe make it easier and faster, which I think is fine.
And we'll have great people come in, and we'll have them come in from all countries - Mexico - everybody, every place. These are great people.
And you know, one of the things that I've seen - because this has been an amazing week - and you know, it's been like an incredible week because I thought I was going to be the jobs person because every poll - CNN did a poll the other day - I'm killing everybody on jobs. I'm killing everybody on leadership. You know, it's like funny. You know, I went through these different categories - the only thing I'm not killing, a lot of people don't like me. I said what difference does it make. This is about competence.
Somebody said, "You win on leadership by far. You win on absolute economic, financial - anything having to do with the economy. You're like lapping the field. Much, much higher than anybody else. But they said, but a lot of people don't know whether or not they like you."
I'm actually a nice person. But I actually said if I'm winning in all these categories, why are we even going through primaries?
Hillary Clinton is going to be a horrible President. It's horrible. If she even wins her own primary, which I don't know.
And by the way, just so you understand, even then press will say "This crowd today blows away anything that Bernie Sanders is having." That I could tell you.
But if you think about it, Hillary Clinton was the worst Secretary of State in the history of our country. The worst. The world blew up around her. Our enemies are a disaster and they hate us more. Our friends are all gone. They're all gone.
They're all sort of like - we don't get along with anybody. Everybody is ripping us off, whether it's Russia or China.
You know what we've done? For 20 years, I've heard the worst thing that could happen would be if Russia or China start uniting. We united them because we did things that were very onerous, because Obama doesn't like Putin and Putin doesn't respect or like Obama.
And all of a sudden, Russia and China now are doing all sorts of things together. So we've driven them together and I've always heard that's a disaster, and it is a disaster. We have driven them.
So, Hillary Clinton was the worst. Now, tell me something - why? Just tell me why would she be a good President? She'd be terrible.
Who would you rather have negotiating a deal - a trade deal - with anybody? Trump or Hillary?
Well, we have to get there first.
So, who would you rather have negotiating a really good deal with Mexico, China, Japan? Trump or Jeb Bush?
So, when I started, I really thought it would be, you know, a long slog, and I was okay with it. I didn't think that the immigration thing would take on a life like it has.
I made some very tough statements about people flowing through because that's one of the things to make our country great again we have to create borders, otherwise we don't have a country.
So it's one of many things.
And I've been very strong. It's one of many things. We have to make great trade deals and all.
So I said strong borders - one of the things. I said trade deals. Who would do better?
I'll tell you what. I know the greatest negotiators in the world. Some are horrible people; horrible human beings. Who cares? Some Wall Street guys, they're brutal, they're miserable. You wouldn't want to go out to dinner - they're terrible people. I love them.
I know the best. I know people that are totally overrated. They're not good like they think and like the press thinks.
I know people that you never heard of that are better than all of them.
I would take one, put him in charge of Japan. Good luck.
You know who's our primary representative right now? Caroline Kennedy. You know how she got the job? 60 Minutes - she went to the White House. She said "I'd love to have a job. I have nothing to do." They said, "How would you like to be the Ambassador to Japan?" She goes, "Really?"
And Abe from Japan, who's a killer, he's great. He's already knocking the hell out of the yen, by the way, which makes it even more impossible for us to compete. And he's wining and dining her, and I watch it all the time - wining and dining and just doing a number on our country.
A friend of mine is a great excavator. That's what he does. He digs foundations. He digs lots of dirt - Earth. But he's a great excavator. Big. And he always bought Caterpillar.
And he calls me up recently and he goes, "I'm a little depressed." "Why?" "I just put in a big order for machinery, for excavating equipment." I said, "Oh, that's good. Did you buy Caterpillar?" "No, I bought Komatsu." I said, "You bought Komatsu?" It's fine. I mean, it's a well-known brand. I said, "You bought Komatsu. Why?" He said, "Because Japan has so devalued the yen" - brilliant, smart, these are smart people - "that it made it impossible."
...So he ordered Komatsu instead of Caterpillar. This is happening all over the place.

MSNBC Reporter: Should there be a database or system that tracks Muslims in this country? Donald Trump: There should be a lot of systems. Beyond databases. I mean, we should have a lot of systems. And today you can do it. But right now we have to have a border, we have to have strength, we have to have a wall, and we cannot let what's happening in this country happen any longer. MSNBC Reporter: But that's something your White House would want to implement? Trump: Oh, I would certainly implement that. Absolutely. MSNBC Reporter: What do you think the effect of that - how would that work? Trump: It would stop people from coming in illegally. We have to stop people from coming in to our country illegally. MSNBC Reporter: But specifically, how do you actually get them registered into a database? Trump: It would be just good management. What you have to do is good management procedures. And we can do that. (to someone else) That's nice. MSNBC Reporter: Do you go to mosques and sign people up? Trump: Different places. You sign 'em up at different, but it's all about management. Our country has no management. MSNBC Reporter: Would they have to legally be in this database, would they be- Trump: They have to - they have to be. Let me just tell you: People can come to the country, but they have to come legally. Thank you very much.

When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best. They're sending people that have lots of problems. They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists.

I will build a great wall - and nobody builds walls better than me, believe me -and I'll build them very inexpensively. I will build a great, great wall on our southern border, and I will make Mexico pay for that wall. Mark my words.

Our country is in serious trouble. We don't win anymore. We don't beat China in trade. We don't beat Japan with their millions and millions of cars coming into this country in trade. We can't beat Mexico at the border or in trade. We can't do anything right. Our military has to be strengthened. Our vets have to be taken care of. We have to end Obamacare and we have to make our country great again, and I will do that. Thank you.


TRUMP: Thank you, Jim.

He was so great. Such a help. So I go around and I see so many people. And I have been treated so well by the people. And you know, we're leading in every poll. We are leading in just about every state. Including Alabama.


TRUMP: We're leading in Florida. Can you believe it? And we're leading big in Florida. And you know, it is really amazing. I said well, Florida, I love Florida. It's a great place. Right, Great? But Florida we have a governor and we have a sitting senator and I'm killing them. Explain that? Obviously they're not doing a very good job. Because that shouldn't be happening. But we are winning in Florida, Pennsylvania, Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, North Carolina, Texas. And then -- nationally we're, we're just absolutely way ahead of everybody else. In fact, you know if this were another country, we could maybe call for an expedited election right. I would love that. Can we do that? Can we do that? I would like to have the election tomorrow. I don't want to wait. So, the reason that I think we see this receptivity is that I know the game better than anybody.

You know, because I've built a great business then I feel sort of stupid. I say I don't want your money. Can I take it, please? I promise I won't do anything for him.


TRUMP: I told him, I said, you know, I don't want your money. Because in two years, when you come to see me about something, I'm not doing it, unless it is good and unless it's going to make America great again, right? Right? But I'm going to have to rethink it. I think I'm going to rethink that because I think I should take a lot of money. Are we allowed to give it to charity or something? I don't - Just take it. Just take it.

So what happens is -- these guys come up. And I'm lucky, you know, everybody says he is never going to run. OK. You know that, right? And my wife actually said, you know if you -- she knows me pretty well. And she also sees the reaction. And for a long time whether it is Trump "the art of the deal" which Obama and Kerry obviously did not read when they did this crazy deal with Iran. Oh, look. The "Art of the Deal." Come here, give me that book. I love that book. You know I said the other day. And it sort of played pretty well. That is my second. Help her over here. Help her over here. That is my -- give me that book. Give me that. There is always "The Art of the Deal," and that's the real one, that's the original.


BERMAN: All right, Donald Trump right now getting a copy of his book "The Art of the Deal" right there. Maybe he is going to sign it. Maybe he's going to keep it. Who knows? Anything could happen at this point. Based on what we have seen. He has been focusing on his business successes so far, focusing on immigration right away.

Next, we'll focus more on that, especially how the other candidates and the Republican field are using his hot button use of the term anchor babies in this campaign. We'll be right back.






BERMAN: Donald Trump holding a rally tonight in a stadium in Mobile, Alabama talking about a number of issues. Let's listen back in. 


TRUMP: We defend Japan. You know, we have an agreement with Japan where if somebody attacks Japan we have to come to their rescue. But if we get attacked Japan doesn't have to help us. Do you think that's a good deal? 

AUDIENCE: No.

TRUMP: That is sort of like Sergeant Bergdahl. Has anybody heard of Sergeant Bergdahl, the traitor. No, no, the traitor. I call President Obama the five for one president.

We get Sergeant Bergdahl, the traitor, who, by the way, six people at least that we know of, six people were killed trying to get this guy back. Six people, they went after him. They wanted to get him back. So we get Sergeant Bergdahl and they get five people that they desperately wanted for years that are right now back on the battlefield trying to kill everybody including us. How stupid are we? How stupid are we? And, you know the reason we have crowds. And no matter where I go. The other night we were in New Hampshire. We had some, New Hampshire was so incredible. The crowd you saw it. It was - and every time I go on television. It has got to be live. It's live. I said can I have a rest, please? Tonight it's live on Fox. Who likes Fox? I like Fox. It's live on CNN. Who likes CNN? This is going to be - and it's live on MSNBC, right?

Well they're still working. They're still working. But I said, you know, how come it always has to be live. Why don't they just cover me like anybody else? Where they go the next day, and they show a little clip. Every time I speak it has to be live. It's not just ridiculous. But it is OK. Right? We have to suffer with it. But look, the reason I have this incredibly, really incredible enthusiasm. And I really appreciate you, especially with this weather and this heat and everything else. But the reason I have it is because I do know what I'm doing. And I don't say that in a braggadocios way, you people are looking for somebody that knows what he is doing. Whatever it is.


TRUMP: You know. You know, thank you, darling. I am going to sign her book. I have to get her the hell out of here. She is so beautiful. I said it the other night. My second favorite book of all time. What's my first favorite book?

AUDIENCE: The Bible!

TRUMP: The Bible. 

(cheers)

TRUMP: And as much as I love "The Art of the Deal." it's not even close. We take the bible all the way, right? OK. Thanks. So I was saying, so they said I wasn't going to run. And everybody was, oh, he's never going to run. Never going to run. He is just having fun. Just a good time. His brand. And like I care of my brand. At this point. You know my brand. I mean I lose gutless Macy's because I said about illegal immigration. They dropped my brand. And I'm supposed to be. They're gutless. They're all gutless. I have to sue Univision. Univision, my poor Miss Universe people. These beautiful women, some are girls. These beautiful women. And I get dropped by think of it. You have these magnificent women that work all their life to be in the Miss USA contest and two weeks before the contest NBC and Univision drop. Because they thought my tone was a little bit strong. And it turned out I was right. So here's the good news. I sued them both. And I mean in the case of Univision, I sued them for $500 million. I want that money. I want that money. So, I actually put it on the other day. Miss USA, I put it on, because it was only fair to the people. And we had it on this small network. And it was fine. But who would do that? All because they want to be so politically correct. They actually called, and they said we'll get it back on soon. We'll get it back on soon. You know, in the case of a couple they said Trump loses NASCAR. It was all over the world. The friend of mine called. You know, because I opened with a strong statement. Meaning, illegal immigration, we got to solve the problem. So all over one day. It was NASCAR. Trump loses NASCAR. I said I don't have a deal with NASCAR. It turned out, it turned out, that I lost NASCAR, you know what they did. They rented a ballroom at Trump Doral. Can you believe it? That was my lawsuit. They had a ballroom. And by the way, I kept their deposit and rented it to somebody else. The next day, I didn't even know I had a deal with them. It turned out they had a ballroom in one of my places, Doral. The next day, ESPN severs ties with Trump. It's all over the world. ESPN. I have friends that called me from Paris. She is a great businessman. Oh, that's too bad about what happened to ESPN. You know what it was? A golf outing at one of my courses in Los Angeles. Can you believe it? This is my big deal. And this was all over the world.


TRUMP: I mean the press, I don't know maybe they didn't get it. Maybe they don't get it. I was very disappointed, though, with Macy's. You know, shirts and ties. Not a big deal. But they heard there are going to be three pickets in front of the store. And they called, we're going to have pickets. Look at that pickets. I said look in two hours they will be gone. 

BERMAN: All right. Listening to Donald Trump talking about all his various business ventures, he's talked about his book, he's talked about his hotel. And he's talked about knowing what he is doing. Although he says he is not bragging. He did begin this speech though, talking about illegal immigration within the first minute that he took the stage. And he's kept on coming back to it. And yes, he has used the words that have caused controversy, he's used the words anchor babies to describe the children of illegal immigrants who were born in the United States. And those words have been causing, I would say some indigestion with the Republican Party, because they are focusing on things that perhaps many of the party establishment do not want to talk about.

So, the issue was this: embrace the words. Risk offending Latinos in the general election, or denounce them and lose a chunk of the Republican base for caving as Donald Trump is accusing them of. Caving to political correctness. Now, this is Donald Trump weighing in on that issue earlier along with Jeb Bush and most recently Ted Cruz.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: It is a very big question as to the anchor babies. You mean it is not politically correct. And yet everybody uses it. So you know what? Give me a different term. I will use the word anchor baby. Excuse me, I'll use the word anchor baby. 








GEORGE: Let's talk about taxes. Warren Buffet made another splash with his op-ed in the New York Times saying it's just not right that he, a billionaire, pays 17 percent in taxes when his secretary and receptionist pay more. Isn't he right about that?

DONALD TRUMP: Well, I'll tell you something. I view it -- there's many different views on that. And I can also tell you that a lot of people will go elsewhere to do business if you start taxing them. Many, many people, and I know people and I deal with -

GEORGE: But 17 percent isn't much for a billionaire.

DONALD TRUMP: Well, I deal with Wall Street all the time. I know all of them. And you're going to have people-- you're going to have a mass exodus. You already have an exodus out of this country. But you're going to have a mass exodus of business out of this country when you start taxing too high. Now, I will tell you -



GEORGE: That didn't happen during the Clinton years. And the-- if we just go back to that, those rates.

DONALD TRUMP: And times have also changed. But if you go back to certain companies, Exxon Mobil, the oil companies, for us to be subsidizing oil companies is absolutely insane. And frankly, the oil companies really facilitate OPEC. The worst abuser we have is OPEC. And the biggest problem this country has, China's a big problem, but OPEC's even worse.

Because every time the country starts to gain steam, the oil goes up. And they raise it. They sit around a nice round table, beautiful table, the best you can get, right? They sit around the table, 11 guys raise the price of oil. So when the economy gets good, they raise the price of oil and they destroy the economy-

GEORGE: But it sounds like--

DONALD TRUMP: And I'll tell you. The biggest problem we have, no matter-- and it's always going to be-- every time I watch in the morning the various shows, right, the business shows. Every time the economy gets good, oil goes up. Gets good, again. Gets good, again. So what they do is they systematically destroy any momentum you get. Because oil should be selling at $25 to $30 a barrel right now. The economy stinks throughout the world, other than for China and for certain OPEC nations where they're making a bundle.

I mean, they're making more money than anybody's ever made. You go to their airports, you go to their road systems, you go to their bridges. George, the problem-- the biggest problem we have, every time this economy gets a little bit of a head of steam, they raise the oil prices.



GEORGE: Well it sounds like this is where you part company with the Tea Party and- and many in the House. You would be willing to close those loopholes on the oil company as part of a deficit-

DONALD TRUMP: Oh, absolutely. I think the oil companies -- and I'm a big Tea Party fan, and the Tea Party loves me and I get great polls in the Tea Party. They-- I'd make speeches and more people show up to my speeches at a Tea Party than anybody else by far. But I'll tell you something. I think when explained to the Tea Party, I can't imagine anybody's going to stick up for Exxon Mobil or some of these big oil companies that are making a fortune and paying relatively little in tax. And I think we should be taxing. Number one, they are the weapon and they use OPEC and OPEC uses them. They're in cahoots with OPEC. OPEC is our single worst abuser. China is our second worst abuser.

GEORGE: So it sounds like also that it was a pretty startling moment, the Republican debate last week where every single one of them said they would reject the deficit reduction plan if it was ten part spending cut to one part tax increase. Would you join them? Was that a plan you could sign onto?

DONALD TRUMP: Well, what I do is I would hold out as long as possible with taxes. We have a very weak economy. We have a very fragile economy. And taxes are a bad thing, raising taxes are a bad thing. What I would certainly do is cut the hell out of expenses. And you can do it. The money that's being wasted-- I'll give you an example.

In Palm Beach, I'm in Palm Beach, Florida. They have an international airport, Palm Beach International Airport. They want to build a $1 billion runway that's totally unnecessary and they want to rip down brand-new buildings all the way along because the runway sits on top of where these buildings are. They were just built. They're brand new, in many cases.

They're going to spend over $1 billion on building a runway and here's the bad news. It's totally unnecessary. And they already have a second runway that if they really wanted it, you don't need it, all they have to do is expand the second runway, just extend it a little bit, and they've got their second runway. But they don't want to do that. Instead, they want to rip down all of these buildings along Southern Boulevard, all of them, brand new gorgeous, expensive buildings, and they want to build another-



GEORGE: But on taxes, let's assume for a second-

DONALD TRUMP: This is over $1 billion. This is one little thing. The whole country's run like that.

GEORGE: As part of a deficit reduction package, would you be willing the pay, assume for a second you pay Warren Buffet's rate, 17 percent. Would you be willing to pay 25 percent instead of 17 percent-

DONALD TRUMP: See, I would be willing to George, but a lot of people wouldn't be. A lot of people would leave the country. I'm talking about big people, job-producing people. Would I be willing? Yeah, I'd be willing. I'd put country first. Lot of people don't necessarily put country first. You know I'm a very proud citizen of this country. I love this country.

Would I be willing? I would be willing. A lot of people will say, "No thank you, I'm going to Switzerland. I'm going to Germany. I'm going to here, I'm going to there." There are a lot of places you can go to. And these are business machines. I know them. They went to Harvard. They went to Wharton. They went to the great schools. They're total business machines. You know what they're going to do? They're going to say-



GEORGE:  But that's not patriotic, isn't it?

DONALD TRUMP: Excuse me?

GEORGE: That's unpatriotic, isn't it?

DONALD TRUMP: It's very unpatriotic. They're not patriotic. In many cases, they're not patriotic. They're business machines. And they're going to say, "Thank you very much, George. I appreciate you letting us know, we're moving to Switzerland."

GEORGE: More than-

DONALD TRUMP: And then you know how much you get? Nothing.

GEORGE: More than half of the country today says they're willing to consider a third-party candidate for president. I was talking to Mayor Bloomberg last week. He says it doesn't matter. The system is rigged. An Independent cannot win. Do you agree?

DONALD TRUMP: Well first of all, he's a friend of mine and he's a great mayor and he's done a great job. I think it would be difficult to win. But the way the system is right now with the Republicans, everybody hates them, with the Democrats, everybody hates them, with a president who's doing a horrible job and his ratings are very low, I feel that an Independent candidate could actually win.

GEORGE: Hard to win in the electoral college.

DONALD TRUMP: If the right person ran, like Trump, if the right person ran, I believe that candidate could win.

GEORGE: You know we've been around this-- we've been around this so many times. And I know that every time that I express skepticism at your serious -- seriousness about running, I get a phone call from you saying, "You're wrong. I'm going to prove you're wrong."

DONALD TRUMP: Well, it's been-- I've been treated unfairly in that regard. I thought about it years ago one time, not two times, one time, very briefly, like for a few days, got a little publicity, and I decided I wasn't going to do it. Then recently I seriously, very seriously thought about it for a period of three months. And I said I'll make a decision prior to June. And ultimately with NBC and everybody coming at me, "Please sign, please sign, please--"

GEORGE: But they'll do that again, won't they?

DONALD TRUMP: Well, I'll tell you one of the reasons I didn't. I'll tell you. And you know how well the show does with "Celebrity Apprentice" and "The Apprentice." I mean, it's been a very good thing and it's hard to sort of say. Hey look, I have a major show." Forget about the money. I have a major show on television.

Because of the laws, you're not allowed to have the show and this. But I'll tell you what really happened that was very discouraging to me. When the Republicans brought Obama back, when they brought him back in a lame duck session, I was so disappointed in them. And when Paul Ryan came out with this ridiculous plan, and I'm not even going to knock the plan, but the timing of the plan, his seat, his new seat of power wasn't even warm. And he comes out with a plan. And they can address it any way they want. But he's attacking Medicare, Medicaid and essentially social security. What the hell did he do that for? How stupid. He's not a chess player.

GEORGE: He says it's the only way to reduce the deficit.

DONALD TRUMP: Excuse me. Let the president come out with a plan. Why would he come out-- in the meantime in Buffalo, a Republican district that hasn't lost in 50 years, a popular Republican running, automatic win, loses by a lot to a person that nobody ever heard of before. The Republicans are going to have a huge problem even holding the House.

The happiest person, when she saw because she happens to be very smart, when she saw this plan of Paul Ryan, the happiest person in the whole country was Nancy Pelosi. Because they're going to run on his plan. And the Republicans have a problem. But not only did he come out with a plan. He made his friends in the House vote for this plan, which, and he can guise it any way he wants, knocks the hell out of Medicare and Medicaid, okay. Now when the Republicans did that, and I'm not saying lots of things don't have to happen in the country, but he should have let the president do it. The happiest guy in the world was the president when he came out with-

GEORGE: Some people think he may run for president. Other people are looking at Chris Christie.



DONALD TRUMP: I don't believe Paul Ryan would have a chance running for president because of what he did with his plan. And then to have his friends vote for it, and these people go back and they're popular in their district. They go back and they have lynch mobs in their district. People that love them aren't going to vote for them. You're going to have a lot of Republicans losing in the House. You watch what happens.

GEORGE: Is the Republican field set?

DONALD TRUMP: I think it's set. I mean, I got to know Sarah Palin very well. I like her a lot. I respect her a lot. I don't think she's running. I'm not sure. I'm not sure that she really knows herself, yet. And it's getting late. I think it's pretty well set. I know Chri-

GEORGE: Not Christie?

DONALD TRUMP: --Christie-- Chris Christie's a very good friend of mine, he's a great guy. I don't think he's running at all. I don't think Paul Ryan can run after what he did with the stupidity of his plan. And again, not so much the plan, but he shouldn't have done it.

GEORGE: So what role do you play in this race?

DONALD TRUMP: Well, the role I play is that everybody calls me including you, "Let's do an interview. Can I do an interview?" So I do interviews. And the reason I do interviews is because I love the country. And I have a lot to say. As an example, when China stole our technology, nobody said this.

I say things because I'm a natural businessman. I'm a natural businessman. I made a lot of money. I make a lot of money. I do it very naturally. I don't work hard at it. I mean, other things are harder for me than business. Business is sort of natural, okay. So I hear about the stealth technology that we spend billions and billions and billions of dollars, and they go to Pakistan, they take our helicopter, they study it, they now have our technology. Right?

We should charge them for it. We should send them a bill for billions of dollars. They stole our technology. If you're running a company and you steal my technology in another company, I'm going to sue you and I'm going to get that money back. So China comes in and Pakistan, our great friends who we give billions of dollars to, and then they give them the helicopter, "Sure, take a look at it, whatever you want, I mean, you're our friends," the fact is, I don't know what China's doing. But China is stronger with Pakistan than us. And I guarantee you, they give Pakistan nothing.

GEORGE: I don't want to spend a lot of time on this-

DONALD TRUMP: No, but think of it. They steal our technology. They steal our technology. And what do we do? We let them get away with it. They're taking the shirt off President Obama's back.

GEORGE: We had a big go-round about President Obama's birth certificate. Don't have to revisit that ground except to close one-

DONALD TRUMP: I'm very proud of it. And by the way, I am very proud of it. I made him do something that nobody else was-

GEORGE: You believe that?

DONALD TRUMP: --able to make him do, 100 percent. Excuse me. John McCain couldn't get it. Hillary Clinton couldn't get it. I made him produce a birth certificate. I don't know where he got it. But I made him-

GEORGE: What does that mean? (LAUGH)

DONALD TRUMP: --produce a birth certificate. And I'm very proud of it. And I'll tell you what. You go out in the real world, George, people give me a lot of credit for having whatever it took to get him to-



GEORGE: But those investigators never found anything.

DONALD TRUMP: Let me just tell you. He produced a birth certificate. There's a lot of skepticism about that birth certificate. I'm off the subject. But there's a lot of skepticism about the-

GEORGE: Of the one he produced?

DONALD TRUMP: You just go on the Internet and you take a look. Yeah, in my opinion. A lot of skepticism about the-

GEORGE: Do you have that skepticism?

DONALD TRUMP: No, I'm onto other things like jobs, like China ripping us off, like OPEC. But it was sort of strange that all of a sudden, at -- for years and years he wouldn't produce it. Then all of a sudden when I put all that heat on him, he finally, begrudgingly-

GEORGE: But he did produce it.

DONALD TRUMP: He produced something. He produced something. I don't know what he produced. But he produced something.

GEORGE: I can't believe you're raising a question about this.

DONALD TRUMP: No, George. You're trying to do a little number and I think that's fine. But I will tell you two things. Number one, I'm very proud of the job I did and I've gotten a lot of credit. Not from you, but from others. And as far as what he produced, that's for others to determine. But they should look into it.

GEORGE: Something else big has happened in your life since we last sat down. You're a grandfather again.

DONALD TRUMP: That's right.

GEORGE: And?

DONALD TRUMP: Very good.

GEORGE: How's it going?

DONALD TRUMP: Ivanka had a beautiful baby and it's great. I mean, the baby is absolutely beautiful and Ivanka's doing well.

GEORGE: And the next time we sit down, will you be a candidate?

DONALD TRUMP: Well, I'm going to see. Again, if the economy continues to be bad, which I think it will because we have incompetent leadership, and if the Republicans pick the wrong candidate, which they may, I won't know that for a little while, I will absolutely consider being a candidate.

GEORGE: Mr. Trump, thanks for your time.

DONALD TRUMP: Thank you very much.






